---
tags:
  -  Tools
  -  Open Source Software
  -  Commercial Software
  -  Free Software
  -  Security Software
---
**Antivirus software** is a program or suite of programs working in
collaboration with each other in order to protect a device from
[malware](malware.md) such as viruses, worms, Trojan horses, and
spyware.

## Protection Methods

### Signature Based Detection

Antivirus programs that use signature based detection contain a
constantly updated dictionary of virus signatures. Whenever a file is
opened or is scanned during a system scan, the antivirus software checks
the contents of the file against the signatures in the virus dictionary.
This method is efficient at detecting presently existing malware, but is
less effective at detecting newer, innovative viruses.

### Heuristic Based Detection

Because there is such a large number of viruses in existence, viruses
are often classified into families. These families consist of the main
virus and any variants it may have. This method of protection allows for
new viruses to be caught faster than signature based detection because
of shared areas of unique code that are identical within that family of
viruses.

### File Emulation Based Detection

File emulation based virus detection is performed by opening files in a
virtual environment and retaining a log of what actions the program
performs. The antivirus software can then review the actions contained
in the log and determine whether or not the file is malicious.

## Mobile Antivirus Solutions

Unlike desktop PCs, applications on smartphones run each application
independent of each other. This ensures that each application on the
device cannot access the data of other applications. Because of this,
any antivirus software installed on the device is not able to access all
of the data contained within the other applications unless the device is
jailbroken or rooted.

## External Links and Resources

* [How effective is antivirus software on smartphones? - TechRepublic](https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-effective-is-antivirus-software-on-smartphones/)
* [Wikipedia entry regarding antivirus software](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antivirus)
