---
tags:
  - Organization
---
**About Belkasoft**

Belkasoft is a digital forensic software manufacturer since 2002. The
company develops a range of forensic products aimed at law enforcement
officials, investigators and experts in IT security and intelligence.
The company delivers solutions that work right out of the box, without
requiring a steep learning curve or any specific skills to operate.
Belkasoft is registered within DUNS, SAM, CCR, ORCA and WAWF.
'Belkasoft' is a registered trademark.

**Products**

The companyâ€™s flagship product is **[Belkasoft Evidence
Center](belkasoft_evidence_center.md)**, an all-in-one digital
forensic solution. Belkasoft Evidence Center makes it easy for an
investigator to acquire, search, analyze, store and share digital
evidence found inside computer and mobile devices, RAM and cloud. The
toolkit will quickly extract digital evidence from multiple sources by
analyzing hard drives, drive images, cloud, memory dumps, iOS,
Blackberry and Android devices, GrayKey, UFED, OFB, ZIP/TAR, TWRP
images, JTAG, and chip-off dumps. Evidence Center X automatically
analyzes the data source and lays out the most forensically important
artifacts for an investigator to review, examine more closely or add to
a report.

**[Belkasoft Triage](belkasoft_t.md)** is digital forensic and
incident response tool developed specifically for a quick analysis of a
live computer and making a partial image of important data. The product
is designed to assist in situations when an investigator or a first
responder is at the scene of incident and needs to quickly identify and
obtain specific digital evidence stored on a Windows machine. More
detail: <https://belkasoft.com/t>

**[Belkasoft Remote Acquisition](belkasoft_r.md)** is a digital
forensic and incident response tool developed specifically for
forensically sound remote acquisition and extraction. More detail:
<https://belkasoft.com/r>

In addition to commercial products, Belkasoft offers a range of free
forensic tools.

**[Belkasoft Live RAM
Capturer](belkasoft_live_ram_capturer.md)** is a tiny free
forensic tool to reliably extract the entire content of the computer's
volatile memory - even if protected by an active anti-debugging or
anti-dumping system. Separate 32-bit and 64-bit builds are available in
order to minimize the tool's footprint as much as possible. Memory dumps
captured with Belkasoft Live RAM Capturer can be analyzed with any
forensic tool including Live RAM Analysis in Belkasoft Evidence Center.

**Belkasoft Evidence Reader** enables Evidence Center users to share
evidence collected with the main suite. Users of Evidence Reader can
access evidence collected during an investigation from any computer,
even if Belkasoft Evidence Center is not installed on that PC.

**Customer Base**

Belkasoft customers include government and private organizations in more
than 130 countries, including the FBI, US Army, DHS, police departments
in Germany, Norway, Australia and New Zealand, PricewaterhouseCoopers,
and Ernst & Young.

## External Links

* [Official website](https://belkasoft.com/)
