---
tags:
  -  People
---
[Bret A. Padres](bret_a._padres.md) directs [Stroz
Friedberg](stroz_friedberg.md)’s Digital Forensics Lab in
Washington, DC, and co-manages the firm’s digital forensics practice.
With over 22 years of experience in the fields of information security,
digital forensics, law enforcement, electronic discovery, and
counterintelligence, Mr. Padres is responsible for developing and
implementing policies and procedures to ensure the highest level of
service and quality of deliverables for clients. He maintains an active
case load and leads investigations for government, corporate, and law
firm clients in matters involving all aspects of digital forensics and
electronic discovery.

Mr. Padres has led incident response teams to investigate significant
hacking incidents occurring in private corporate networks and at
government agencies. Additionally, he has designed and implemented
digital forensic tools and practices for incident response and computer
analysis, for use in both civil and criminal matters. Prior to joining
Stroz Friedberg, Mr. Padres held various leadership positions, including
Director of Incident Response and Director of Cyber Operations, at other
private consulting firms.

Mr. Padres also enjoyed a distinguished career in federal government
service that included serving as the Chief of Research and Development,
Computer Crimes Unit, for the U.S. Postal Service Office of the
Inspector General. In this capacity, he managed the research and
development program implementing new technologies to enhance computer
investigative capabilities. In addition, he performed digital forensic
analysis and provided expert testimony in federal court in connection
with the espionage prosecution of Brian Regan, who was subsequently
convicted of stealing classified information for sale to foreign
countries.

Mr. Padres served as a Special Agent in the U.S. Air Force Office of
Special Investigations where he was the lead agent on several national
and international computer intrusion investigations. He also provided
computer forensic support and expert reports and testimony detailing the
results of forensic examinations in significant criminal investigations
involving child pornography, homicide, and rape. His responsibility
included coordinating investigative issues with other law enforcement
authorities. Mr. Padres also directed network surveillance and intrusion
detection counterintelligence operations for U.S. government agencies,
for which he built a forensic and field monitoring capability in support
of cyber-operations.

Mr. Padres received his B.S. degree in Computer Information Systems from
Excelsior College and has a certificate in C/C++ programming. He has
made helpful contributions to the digital forensic field by developing
open source digital forensic tools and co-hosting a weekly Internet
radio show, in which he interviews other experts and explores digital
forensics, network security, and computer crime topics with an audience
that numbers in the thousands.

Mr. Padres has made helpful contributions to the digital forensic field
by developing open source digital forensic tools and co-hosting a weekly
Internet radio show, CyberSpeak, in which he interviews other experts
and explores digital forensics, network security and computer crime
topics with thousands of listeners.