---
tags:
  - Disk Imaging
  - Commercial Hardware
  - Tools
---
Data Copy King is one disk image hardware, DoD data wipe hardware and
also used as one professional forensic disk image tool.

Data Copy King has build-in IDE and SATA ports and supports USB data
copy with adapters, it is one 1:1 hard drive duplicator. The top
features of DCK is its claimed disk image speed at 7GB/min and data wipe
speed at 8GB/min and its ability to copy bad sectors/unstable drives.

## Background of Universal Hard drive duplicator

In the past, traditional hard drive duplicators and imaging tools can
only copy good hard drives or drives with few bad sectors, most of them
were designed without considering the data copy from unstable drives
after head or platter swap or drives with a lot of bad sectors. If you
use the traditional image tools to copy such unstable drives, the
imaging process usually get stuck, the source drive stops working when
only part of data is copied and other kind of imaging obstacles. At this
time, you need to re-copy the data and reset the starting LBA value. The
operators can not guarantee at all what and how much data has been
copied, what has been omitted. The direct loss is your efficiency loss,
data copy failure and even further damage to your data storage medias to
cause permanent data loss.

## Add-on of Universal Hard drive duplicator

Disk wipe tools are flooded in the data wiping market. As we all know,
when we are using our hard disk drives, we always meet bad sectors, both
logically and physically, sometimes, if your computers have a fall,
there might be some slight scratches even if it's still detected in the
bios, as time passes by, the bad sectors and scratches become more
severe and your drives become undetected at that time. Before that
deadly failure, we should perform effective data backup and wipe the
disk for data security. But traditional disk image tools or hd
duplicators can not copy and wipe the unstable drives with bad sectors
or scratches at all, therefore, we need not only some new and powerful
data copy solution but also strong disk wipe solution to wipe data on
the unstbale sectors and slightly scratched drives. That's why Universal
hard drive duplicators need also an add-on for disk wipe solutions.

## Universal hard drive duplicator

1. 'Universal' indicates the storage medias from hard drives to flash
drives, from good storage medias to storage medias with defects such as
a lot of bad sectors, unstable heads or motor after head or platter
swap, clicking drives but still detected in the bios or other kind of
logical failure with detected status;

2. 'Universal' suggests a combination of multiple Data Copy related
solutions such as drive health checking, data clean or data destruction;

3. 'Universal' means the wide use among different fields like data
recovery field, IT after sale field, Education and training field,
Government and miliary field, computer forensics field, Financial
department field etc;

4. One important thing to mention about the 'Universal' here is the
green concept used, no backdoor design, physical read only, 0 training
required, friendly and nice interface, Energy-saving, cost effective,
etc.
