---
tags:
  -  Organization
  -  Articles that need to be expanded
---
The **Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section** of the **United
States Department of Justice (CCIPS)** is responsible for implementing
the Department's national strategies in combating computer and
intellectual property crimes worldwide. The Computer Crime Initiative is
a comprehensive program designed to combat electronic penetrations, data
thefts, and cyberattacks on critical information systems. CCIPS
prevents, investigates, and prosecutes computer crimes by working with
other government agencies, the private sector, academic institutions,
and foreign counterparts. Section attorneys work to improve the domestic
and international infrastructure-legal, technological, and
operational-to pursue network criminals most effectively. The Section's
enforcement responsibilities against intellectual property crimes are
similarly multi-faceted. Intellectual Property (IP) has become one of
the principal U.S. economic engines, and the nation is a target of
choice for thieves of material protected by copyright, trademark, or
trade-secret designation. In pursuing all these goals, CCIPS attorneys
regularly run complex investigations, resolve unique legal and
investigative issues raised by emerging computer and telecommunications
technologies; litigate cases; provide litigation support to other
prosecutors; train federal, state, and local law enforcement personnel;
comment on and propose legislation; and initiate and participate in
international efforts to combat computer and intellectual property
crime.

The Cybercrime lab is responsible for providing computer forensic and
other technical support to CCIPS attorneys as it applies to implementing
the Department's national strategies in combating computer and
intellectual property crimes worldwide.

The Cybercrime lab supports the CCIPS comprehensive program designed to
combat electronic penetrations, data thefts, and cyber attacks on
critical information systems. The Cybercrime lab also provides technical
support and training to improve the domestic and international
infrastructure-legal, technological, and operational-to pursue network
criminals most effectively. The Section's enforcement responsibilities
against intellectual property crimes are similarly multi-faceted.
Intellectual Property (IP) has become one of the principal U.S. economic
engines, and the nation is a target of choice for thieves of material
protected by copyright, trademark, or trade-secret designation.

## External Links

- [Official website](https://www.justice.gov/criminal/criminal-ccips)
