---
tags:
  -  Windows
  -  Tools
  -  Open Source Software
  -  Email Analysis
---
***EdbMails*** is an Exchange server recovery tool that helps to recover
corrupted database that has data such as mails, calendar, contacts,
journals, notes, attachments etc. It has options to preview content
before exporting from an edb file to
pst[1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personal_Storage_Table) file,
Office365[2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Office_365), Live Exchange
Server[3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft_Exchange_Server).

## **Overview**

*EdbMails* application is the unique solution to view, read and export
email items of the offline EDB files. It support all major Exchange
server versions. Also, using *EdbMails* you can migrate mailboxes to
Office365 user accounts and Live exchange server directly.

## **Features**

**Extract Mailboxes from Corrupted EDB files:** *EdbMails* Application
is engineered with best programming methodologies that enables the
complete extraction of email items from the corrupted or damaged EDB
files. All the mail items like calendar appointment, contacts, mail,
mail attachments, Task, Notes, folder structure will be exported to PST
file.

**Ability to Export individual item:** It enables the users to recover
single email to MSG, EML etc formats. It can filter recovery operation
for items based on subject and date.

**Exchange server granular recovery:** Granular Recovery is used by many
backup solutions to allow recovery of the smallest data set within a
larger backup set.

**Recovery of Deleted Mailboxes/folders:** Recover all the accidentally
deleted mailboxes and folder from the EDB file using *EdbMails*
Application.

**Migration of EDB to Office365:** It has options to choose multiple
mailboxes for Office365 according to requirements and route recovered
mailboxes data to appropriate Office365 user mailbox.

**Migrate EDB to Live Exchange server:** Migrate your mailboxes from EDB
to live Exchange server using *EdbMails* application.

## **License Information**

For softwareâ€™s license related information, visit our website [Licence
agreement](https://www.edbmails.com/pages/terms-of-use.html)

## **Technical Support**

24/7 technical support services is offered through modes, i.e. live
chat, voice messaging, telephone, email support to assist with any
software related issue.

## **External links**

[Official Website](https://www.edbmails.com/)

[Video tutorials for
EdbMails](https://www.edbmails.com/pages/video.html)

[EdbMails Blog](http://blog.edbmails.com)