---
tags:
  - Commercial Software
---
The Forensic Toolkit for SQLite includes three comprehensive software
applications, The Forensic Browser for SQLite, Forensic Recovery for
SQLite and SQLite Forensic Explorer, which make recovering SQLite
records from disk, image and database simpler and more intuitive. These
tools are an invaluable addition to any investigators tool box.

[Forensic Toolkit for SQLite](https://sqliteforensictoolkit.com/sqlite-forensic-toolkit/)

**The Forensic Browser for SQLite**

A comprehensive database browser that recovers live and deleted records
from SQLite databases as well as rollback journals and write ahead
logging journals. The browser provides numerous data conversion
facilities and allsow you to display numbers in many datae formats and
apply timezone conversions, display blobs as pictures, integrate maps
into report, export tables in many formats and provides a comprehensive
visual query building interface.

The Browser also supports extensions that can be written by Sanderson
Forensic or by our users. Extensions can be used to decode data encoded
or encrypted in tables (usually in blobs - such as in Facebook orca2.db
blobs) or can be used to decode files to 'import' the data in the the
Browser (the latest extension decodes and imports tables from Microsoft
ESE/EDB/JetBlue databases)

**SQLite Forensic Explorer**

SQLite Forensic Explorer is an investigative tool designed to show every
single byte of an SQLite database or WAL file along with its decoded
data. This means you can look at any field in the DB/WAL file header and
see what it means, or you can look at an index B-Tree page and see each
structure within the page decoded.

SQLite Forensic Explorer provides an unparalleled view into the
structure and workings of SQLite at a file level and is invaluable to
forensic investigators looking for deleted data (or a corrupt database)
or to those who simply want to know more about the structure of a
database

**SQLite Forensic Recovery**

SQLite Recovery is a forensic tool to aid in the recovery of SQLite
databases, tables and records. SQLite Recovery can search a disk,
volume, image or file for deleted SQLite databases. You can search for
specific databases and tables 'described' by a signature or you can let
SQLFR search for all databases (known and unknown) on a volume.
