---
tags:
  - People
---
<img src="HarlanCarvey.jpg" title="HarlanCarvey.jpg" width="200"
alt="HarlanCarvey.jpg" /> [Harlan Carvey](harlan_carvey.md) is a
computer forensics author, researcher and practitioner. He has written
several books and tools focusing on [Windows](windows.md)
systems and [incident response](incident_response.md). His
[Windows Incident Response Blog](https://windowsir.blogspot.com) Harlan
Carvey's interest in computer and information security began while he
was an officer in the U.S. military, and a student at the Naval
Postgraduate School, earning his MSEE. After leaving military service,
he began working in the field of commercial and government information
security consulting, performing vulnerability assessments and
penetration tests. While employed at one company, he was the sole
developer of a program for collecting security-specific information
(i.e., Registry entries, file information, configuration settings, etc.)
from Windows NT systems during vulnerability assessments. The purpose of
the product was to overcome shortfalls in commercial scanning products
and provide more valuable information to the customer. Harlan has also
done considerable work in the area of incident response and forensics,
performing internal and external investigations. He has also written a
number of proof-of-concept tools for educating users in such topics as
Windows null sessions, file signature analysis, and the retrieval of
metadata from a variety of file formats. Harlan's experience with
computers began in the early '80s, with a Timex-Sinclair 1000. Around
that time, he was learning to program BASIC on an Apple IIe. From there,
he moved on to computers such as the Epson QX-10 and the TRS-80, on
which he programmed BASIC and learned some rudimentary PASCAL, using the
TurboPASCAL compiler. Since then, he's worked with SunOS and Solaris
systems, as well as various versions of DOS and Windows, OS/2, and
Linux. Harlan has presented at a variety of computer security
conferences, including Usenix, DefCon9, Black Hat, GMU2003/HTCIA/RCFG,
WACCI, and PFIC2010. He has discussed various topics specific to issues
on Windows platforms, such as data hiding, incident response, and
forensic analysis. He has had articles published in the Information
Security Bulletin, on the SecurityFocus website, and in the Hakin9
magazine. Finally, Harlan has written a number of open source programs
(including RegRipper), which have been made available online and via
CDs/DVDs in his books. His [Windows Incident
Response](https://windowsir.blogspot.com/) blog is updated on a regular
basis.

## Website

- [Harlan's Windows Incident Response Blog](https://windowsir.blogspot.com)

## Tools

- [WinForensicAnalysis Tools](https://code.google.com/archive/p/winforensicaanalysis/downloads) -
  Hosted on Google Code, includes files for the Windows Registry
  Forensics book.

## Books

- Windows Registry Forensics
- Windows Forensic Analysis
- [Windows Forensics and Incident Recovery](https://www.amazon.com/Forensics-Incident-Addison-Wesley-Microsoft-Technology/dp/0321200985/)
- [Perl Scripting for Windows Security](https://www.amazon.com/Perl-Scripting-Windows-Security-Monitoring/dp/159749173X)
- A Study of Video Teleconferencing Traffic on a TCP/IP Network
