---
tags:
  - No Category
---
## IMM

The **Incredimail email file (IMM)** is used by the Incredimail email
client to store all the email data. The .imm files are basically meant
for storing the emails. They do not have the caliber to keep hold of
attachments. The Incredimail email client is an advanced application
that has a benchmarked level of graphically enabled features and
attributes. It was developed by Perion Network Ltd.

## Location of IMM

On Windows XP, the default location where the IMM is stored by
Incredimail can be obtained by clicking on *“Tools”* and selecting
*“Options”* from the dropdown menu. Now move to *“General”* tab,
followed by *“Data Folder Settings”*. Now in the Data Folder Settings
pop – up window, copy the displayed path and paste it in the address bar
of windows explorer. Move to *“Identities” \> “String of Numbers” \>
“Message Store Folder”*. You can now view the available IMM files
(inbox.imm. deleted items.imm, outbox.imm, etc.).

On Windows 7, to view the stored IMM files, move to the following
location: - *“C:\Users\\%username%\Appdata\Local\IM\Identities”*

Under the “Identities” folder, locate the "Message Store"; in which
under the “Messages” folder, you can locate the “msg.iml” file. The
users of Incredimail 2.0 and previous versions can find the file as
*“msg.imm”*, where as the latter one’s can now recognize it as
*“msg.iml”*.

The header meta data of the IMM files gets stored in a peculiar format
that is recognized as an IMH file extension.

## Structure of IMM

The structure of IMM file is very much similar to that of MBOX files
that keeps hold of multiple emails. The file, when viewed with a text
editor like notepad; shows that it starts with the simple structure of
*Delivered-To* and *Received* meta data fields. Each and every
information related to all the emails such as *Return-Path*,
*DKIM-Signature* and many more can be viewed easily.

## External Links

## Tools

[Incredimail
Converter](https://www.pcvare.com/incredimail-converter.html)