---
tags:
  -  Organization
---
![](INsig2_logo_prozirni.png "INsig2_logo_prozirni.png")

## OVERVIEW

[<span style="color:red">**INsig2**</span>](https://www.insig2.com/en/category/digital-forensics)
was founded in 2004 and its main focus is on digital forensics. Since
the very first day of business activity, INsig2 has been working with
digital evidence and digital forensics. Moreover, INsig2 recognized
digital forensics as an emerging discipline that would be impossible to
avoid in any serious investigation, regardless of the type of criminal
offense. Along with the continuous investment of significant resources
in the training of its own experts, INsig2 since 2008 has been operating
its own educational center with the capacity to conduct a variety of
high-quality forensic courses.

INsig2 has established partnerships with globally recognized digital
forensic software and hardware vendors, which enables it to provide
specific vendor training and forensic services. INsig2 has been
providing digital forensics services to clients in both public (law
enforcement officials, government agencies) and private sector
(corporations and small businesses). Business model, that every client
is unique and deserves an individual approach, procured INsig2 long-term
cooperation with numerous clients all over the world. INsig2 has been
providing its services on almost all continents in more than 40
countries.

## SERVICES

### Consulting

Consulting services, in the field of digital forensics, offered by
INsig2 are very efficient and personalized types of assistance to
customers whenever and wherever they need it the most. INsig2 advises,
supports, and conducts investigations for the public sector (military,
government, police, special task forces) and private sector
(corporations and small businesses). Clients often use INsig2 consulting
services in complex investigations when they deal with complex problems
or when they need help with advanced forensic tools.

However, consulting services do not stop here. They also include
assistance in the construction of laboratories, training, and
certification of experts, and investigative procedures simulation.
INsig2 also provides consulting services and close cooperation to
judges, prosecutors, and lawyers in presenting digital evidence in a
legal system.

### Forensic Investigations

INsig2 is not tied to any specific area of conducting an investigation,
and it is ready to take on any case involving data stored or transmitted
in digital form. Therefore, INsig2 conducts investigations in the
following areas: Computer Forensics, Mobile Forensics, Network
Forensics, Drone Forensics, Car Forensics, Video, and Audio Forensics,
Cloud Forensics, Database Forensics, and Incident Response. Most of the
cases brought to INsig2 are from law enforcement agencies, however,
there has been a growth in investigations coming from business and
private sector. Specific areas include company policy violations, misuse
of company’s resources, theft of intellectual property, fraud, threats,
retrieval of artifacts, and many more.

### Lab Management

INsig2 has extensive experience in designing, equipping, and setting up
digital forensics laboratories for different government agencies and law
enforcement. In line with the client’s budget and requirements, INsig2
will suggest the best possible solution, deliver, and set up all the
equipment and software. INsig2 experts will also prepare the project
documentation and all relevant technical documentation in accordance
with current legislation and the latest standards necessary for the
optimal performance, operation, and fulfillment of requirements and
rules of the profession. In addition, we offer ISO lab certifications
support, the development of standard operating procedures, checklists
development, and lab optimization to get the most out of the hardware,
software, and human resources.

### Equipment Procurement

INsig2 is a distributor for all mainstream forensic software and
hardware, and therefore also provides the first line of support,
consulting services on how to use the tools in the most efficient way,
how to utilize them in a lab environment and provides all necessary
information from the manufacturer.

### Cybersecurity

INsig2 cybersecurity department selects and offers only the best
solutions in the field of cybersecurity, also they offer consulting
services on the solution, implementation, and everyday use. Through the
research and experience, INsig2 found that working together with the
clients on solving their issues through consulting was the most desired
and welcoming service.

### Education

From its beginning, training was the core business for INsig2. Most of
the efforts done are strictly directed towards developing and delivering
various courses related to digital forensics. INsig2 offers specialized
courses for digital forensic investigators, prosecutors, judges,
lawyers, and professionals working in the private sector. The courses
are covering a wide range of topics, from basic digital forensic
concepts and procedures (computer hardware, windows forensics, internet
forensics, and many more) to advanced topics (data science, criminal
intelligence, strategic intelligence, and others) for experienced
investigators who want to expand their knowledge in digital forensics.
Moreover, INsig2 places special focus on digital forensics education for
legal entities, where it provides tailor-made courses to help them
understand the nature of digital evidence, digital forensics
methodology, and principles, but also the lifecycle of digital forensics
investigation from the seizure of the digital media to presenting
digital evidence in court. Education can be organized on the client’s
premises, and in such case, INsig2 offers complete organization and
execution of a large, complex, and unique training (course materials,
equipment, training facilities, expert trainers). In addition, the
training can be held at the INsig2 education center or online.

### Digital Forensics Intelligence

Criminal intelligence analysis is an essential component of effective
policing, at both the operational and strategic levels. The analysts
study data related to criminals, crime suspects, incidents, issues, and
trends. By collecting and assessing this data, they can identify
relationships or connections between different crimes in different
places and provide insights that can drive or support law enforcement
investigations, operations, and strategy, as well as influencing
government policy and decisions.

## BUSINESS FOCUS - EDUCATION

INsig2 educates professionals working in the law enforcement sector,
legal, and private sector, and by working closely with the client,
INsig2 can adjust the course’s content and duration, deliver the
training on several locations, and organize complete infrastructure
(equipment, expert trainers, course materials) to meet the client’s
specific requirements. Upon successful completion of the training and
exam, the clients will receive an official certificate with CPE points
for passing the course.

INsig2 [<span style="color:red">GENERAL
COURSES</span>](https://www.insig2.com/en/educations/computer-hardware)
are not related to specific products and their aim is to cover different
principles and procedures of digital forensics. These trainings are
enhanced and modified on a regular basis, in line with the latest
developments in digital forensics and computer security.

Based on many years of experience with providing various courses in the
field of digital forensics, INsig2 has developed its own
[<span style="color:red">SPECIALIZED
COURSES</span>](https://www.insig2.com/en/educations/scripting-digital-forensic-investigator-script).
They were created on the basis of extensive experience and collaboration
with a number of clients who required and requested additional skills to
be developed for their experts.

[<span style="color:red">TAILOR-MADE</span>](https://www.insig2.com/en/educations/more-info-0)
courses provide the client with the opportunity to fully focus on their
learning and development needs, specific to their environment,
requirements, and the specific skill level of their staff. With
interested clients, INsig2 will develop the content, design exercises,
and activities for active participation and provide a follow-up.
Customization also includes adjustment of training duration to meet the
client’s goals and expectations.

[<span style="color:red">DIGITAL INTELLIGENCE FORENSICS
COURSES</span>](https://www.insig2.com/en/educations/operational-analysis)
consist of two different types of education, Operational – aimed at
achieving a specific law enforcement outcome and Strategic analysis -
intended to inform senior decision-makers over the long-term analysis.
The course outcomes include identification of criminal’s modus operandi,
crime trends, and patterns, emerging threats, the potential impact of
external factors such as technology, demographics, or economics on
crime.

[<span style="color:red">VENDOR
COURSES</span>](https://www.insig2.com/en/educations/more-info-1):
AccessData, AmpedSoftware, Belkasoft, Berla, BlackBag, BlueBear,
Cellebrite, Compelson Labs, MagnetForensics, MSAB, NRD Cyber Security,
NUIX, OpenText, Oxygen Forensics, Sumuri, Teel Technologies

### Digital Forensics e-learning

INsig2 and Zyber Global Ltd. [Digital Forensics
<span style="color:red">e-learning
platform</span>](https://insig2-and-zyberglobal.learnworlds.com/)
consists of specially created digital forensics courses intended for
professionals working in legal, law enforcement, and the private sector.
INsig2 offers customized courses for [<span style="color:red">LEGAL
ENTITIES</span>](https://insig2-and-zyberglobal.learnworlds.com/pages/legal-entities)
that focus on deeper aspects of digital forensics and forensic evidence
while collecting, processing, and presenting digital evidence in
criminal proceedings. The courses intended for
[<span style="color:red">LAW
ENFORCEMENT</span>](https://insig2-and-zyberglobal.learnworlds.com/pages/law-enforcement)
officials cover procedures, techniques, and tools used in digital
forensics analysis and how they can apply them in their forensic
investigations. For the various industry professionals working in the
[<span style="color:red">PRIVATE
SECTOR</span>](https://insig2-and-zyberglobal.learnworlds.com/pages/business),
tailored courses help them understand the value and the need for digital
forensics, and its implications in a corporate environment

Courses are designed as full-text reading courses, and all technical
terms have been fitted with easy-to-read real-life scenarios,
understandable for everyone. Each course consists of several chapters,
each followed by a short quiz to test your knowledge. The courses have
access for several months, meaning the participants can choose the pace
at which they want to learn. At the end of each course, participants go
through a final assessment, a case study or a practical exam, and upon
successful completion, they will be issued the e-certificate which is
immediately printable for their records.

Participants earn CPD (Continuing Professional Development), CPE
(Continuing Professional Education), and CLE (Continuing Legal
Education) points by obtaining the e-certificate. The number of points
depends on the course. Earning these points is a structured approach to
learning in order to ensure competence to practice, keep skills updated,
and gain practical experience.

## INSIG2 HIGHLIGHTS

### Certified Quality

Professional improvement and acquiring new expertise is the priority of
the INsig2 team! Our experts hold certificates from the following
organizations and companies: CFCE, AccessData ACE, EnCE, UFED – CMFF,
CCO, CCPA, CCME, Oxygen, MSAB XRY, Berla – CVST, CVSE, Belkasoft,
Blackbag -CBE, MiCFE, CSITech Cryptocurrency, Live Data Forensics, and
Open Source Intelligence.

### OLAF Digital Forensics Training

A consortium led by INsig2 won two tenders of European Commission for
providing digital forensics education for digital forensics
investigators and analysts (first contract in 2013 and the second in
2018). Each four-year contract is worth 5 million euros, and the goal is
to educate around 2000 people. The purchaser is the European Anti-Fraud
Office (OLAF), and the trainings are financed by the Hercule III
program. INsig2 designs, plans, and organizes two-week digital forensics
and cyber-forensics training sessions for over 200 participants in over
10 different expert courses. Each training session is organized in a
different European city, and all materials, software, and hardware
needed for the training are provided by a consortium. The contract
engages INsig2 and a consortium to deliver and evaluate training for
staff working in national and regional law enforcement agencies in the
EU. The training provides national forensics experts access to
certification procedures recognized and accredited at the international
level.

### INsig2 DataFocus

![](INsig2_DataFocus_logo.png "INsig2_DataFocus_logo.png")[<span style="color:red">INsig2
DataFocus</span>](https://www.insig2.com/datafocus-archive) is an annual
international conference on digital evidence that has been organized
successively since 2012 by INsig2. The conference is aimed mostly at law
enforcement investigators, prosecutors, judges, and forensic experts.
DataFocus is organized in three tracks, Legal (legal aspects of
collecting, processing, and presenting digital evidence), Investigation
(technical aspects of finding, preserving, and processing digital
evidence), and Technical track (exhibitors presenting and demonstrating
newest products, services, and trends). Each year, over 200 participants
from more than 30 countries all over the world attend the conference.
This is part of INsig2 efforts to promote digital forensic discipline
and to inform all interested parties in the region about new trends in
the field of digital forensic.

## WEBSITES AND SOCIAL MEDIA

### Websites

Visit the INsig2 website
[<span style="color:red">here</span>](https://www.insig2.com/en)

Visit the INsig2 Digital Forensics e-learning platform
[<span style="color:red">here</span>](https://insig2-and-zyberglobal.learnworlds.com/)

### Social Media

Follow INsig2 on:

[<span style="color:red">LinkedIn</span>](https://www.linkedin.com/company/insig2)
[<span style="color:red">Twitter</span>](https://twitter.com/INsig2_Ltd)
[<span style="color:red">YouTube</span>](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCYcm_mkn-q7FATBdiZmpE4A)

## CONTACT DETAILS

Email: training@insig2.com

Tel: +385 (1) 6386 600

