---
tags:
  - Analysis
---
To get a detailed report on Outlook PST files, you need to have an
analytical tool that can devise a strategy for you to make your work
easier. Kernel Data Recovery has designed Kernel Outlook PST Reporter
that can provide you analytical approach on Outlook profiles email
structure. It gives detailed description about concerned PST files.

# Overview

Kernel Outlook PST Reporter is a free tool with an outstanding
capability to provide detailed statistical and analytical data on user’s
PST files. Being a free tool, Kernel Outlook PST Reporter comes without
any limitations on providing comprehensive reports for concerned folder
of PST files. The tool manages its report on the basis of data items
such as Sender's Name, Sender's Email ID, Emails Read/Unread, and Total
Email Item Size, Total Attachments, Attachment Type, and so on.

# Features

The most important feature of Kernel Outlook PST Reporter is to provide
statistical and analytical report on user’s selected folders of PST
files. The other features are ancillary to it.

## Detailed Report of PST files

Kernel Outlook PST Reporter provides detailed report on folders of PST
files. It gives an idea on intensity of email traffic on the basis of
data such as Sender's Name, Sender's Email ID, Emails Read/Unread, and
Total Email Item Size, Total Attachments, Attachment Type, and so on.

## Provision of Deleting the Selected Date Range

Kernel Outlook PST Reporter provides a functionality to delete the date
if it does not contain the folder of our interest. This feature provides
clean inspection of data items available in the selected data range. It
helps in creating detailed report.

## Provides Different Format for Report Generation

MS Excel and HTML are the two formats provided by Kernel Outlook PST
Reporter to generate file analysis report. The selection of either
format maintains the availability of report at anytime and anywhere.
Being easy to export, you can attach them to your e-mail according to
you convince.

## Supports MS Outlook and Windows OS

Due to large number of versions of MS Outlook and Windows OS, it is
necessary for the software to recognize the PST file in which it is
made. Kernel Outlook PST Reporter perfectly recognizes PST file versions
as it supports nearly all versions of MS Outlook and Windows OS.

# Support

Due to user-friendly GUI no technical support is needed; however, if
user faces any technical glitches while installation and uninstallation
of Kernel Outlook PST Reporter, then user can contact through phone or
email without any hesitation.

# External Links

* [Official Website](https://www.nucleustechnologies.com/)
