---
tags:
  - Analysis
---
Kernel for PST ADD is a freeware developed under Kernel Data recovery
tools that enables addition of multiple PST files or single PST file to
MS Outlook application in a single click. The tool ensures complete file
exportation by maintaining its integrity throughout the process.

# Overvuiew

Kernel for PSTADD is a free tool that facilitates user with option to
add more than one PST file to existing MS Outlook application running on
the system. It enable user to fetch PST files of different Outlook
profiles at one place and allows user to manage them efficiently. User
can add or remove PST files from the organized list and carryout the PST
addition process as per requirement. The software can be operated with
minimum technical efficiency as it offers a user-friendly platform.

# Features

Kernel for PST ADD is user centric application with simple and
understanding features. It provides a trouble free procedure to complete
the PST addition task. It is compatible with all the versions of MS
Outlook including the latest version 2013 and with all the versions of
Windows OS from Windows 85 to Windows 8.1.

## Integrity Maintainer

The software maintains the integrity and original structural format of
the data carried by PST files, throughout the PST file addition
procedure. The software developers triggered the security feature of the
software while developing it to provide 100% satisfactory results to the
users.

## Error prevention

The software provides an error free PST file addition process by
preventing the files from various corruption issues like malicious
software affect, virus attack, fluctuating power backup etc. The
software ensures that the files remain unaffected by any means of
damage.

## Freeware

The software is available under free tools category of Kernel Data
Recovery. It can be downloaded and utilized free without any extra
hidden cost.

# Licensing

Information related to the license of the software can be studied in
detail from the softwareâ€™s official website.

# Support

Kernel for PST ADD is a free tool with lifetime validity and free
updates. User can get free technical assistance via phone, live chat or
email at any time, before and after download.

# External Links

* [Official Website](http://www.nucleustechnologies.com/)
