---
tags:
  - Analysis
---
Kernel for Outlook to PDF is a free conversion utility to restore and
read the data of PST files, in a secured PDF file. The utility embeds
advanced programming algorithms to convert total or selected mailbox
items (like Inbox, Outbox, Junk Folders, Sent Items etc.) of contained
PST files to user-specified folders. Email attachments can be
systematically stored in individual folders as per the user-command.
Although, the utility can be installed only on Windows-supported
operating systems.

# Overview

Kernel for Outlook to PDF converter is one of the many freeware offered
in the range of Kernel free tools by Kernel Data Recovery. The converter
extends the compatibility to open PST data file outside Outlook
environment. The program is specialized in converting unlimited number
of Outlook PST files to independent PDF files, which can be secured from
unauthorized sharing and modification using enhanced data security
settings of the tool.

# Interface

Outlook to PDF converter has neat and simplified interface design
featured with Graphical User Interface to extend the user convenience in
operating the tool. It is an independent conversion utility that
requires no additional resources and technical expertise for the
end-users to obtain the desired results. However, it is essential that
user has Windows-powered OS, and successfully installed Ghost script &
Adobe Acrobat Reader on the host machine.

The software interface maintains user-transparencies of the operation
performed at the specified user-action. For example, user can view the
exact status, subject and progress of items performed for conversion.
Upon saving the files, the software displays the file location of the
saved items, to facilitate quick and hassle-free user access.

# Features

## Quick Scanning

Kernel for Outlook to PDF has an inbuilt search feature to provide
instant scanning of PST files from the selected folder of the system
drive, to cut-down the manual efforts of the users in searching the
files, even if the precise location is unknown.

## Data Preview

There is a dedicated preview box to meticulously view the data of
provided source file, before saving it to the desired location. The tool
displays each and every folder contained in the file including Deleted
Items, Inbox, Outbox, contacts, Calendars, Sent Items, and Journals etc.
to read them in detail within the software wizard.

## Conversion Flexibility

The freeware provides the flexibility to convert PST data using the two
options: convert by selected folders or selected items. Choose ‘convert
selected folder’ option to select the desired check boxes that are
needed to be restored. However, if the user wants to convert more than
one e-mails or items to PDF file, then select ‘convert by selected
items’ option to save accordingly.

## Data Integrity

The utility converts PST files to PDF format while preserving the
complete integrity of data file including its actual properties
(Subject, To, From, Cc, and Bcc) as of original file.

## Security Settings

The freeware also embeds an encryption feature to secure the resultant
PDF file with a user-specified password. The user can also define the
permission settings like print, copy, annotate and modify to further
secure from any unauthorized user access.

# External Links

* [Official Website](https://www.nucleustechnologies.com/)
