---
tags:
  - Analysis
---
Kernel MBOX Viewer is the standalone utility designed to view entire
MBOX file contents in hierarchical manner. This MBOX Viewer tool
perfectly maintains folder structure and format. Thus, with an immediate
quick installation of this tool, you must not wait for queued
installation and getting the tool ready for uploading concerned files.

# Overview

Kernel MBOX Viewer is a free tool developed to provide complete visuals
and details of the contents in hierarchal manner present in MBOX files.
This application is automated to reflect the items like mails, contacts,
folders, drafts, appointments, etc. Being a standalone platform, no
supporting application (active or passive form) is required. Kernel MBOX
Viewer can tackle even complicated MBOX files irrespective of their
complication level.

# Features

Kernel MBOX Viewer is a versatile tool that provides preview of the MBOX
files with an efficacy of supporting 20 MBOX clients. It would be wise
to use a reliable tool like Kernel for MBOX Viewer, than other tool with
a subscription of only 1-year.

## Standalone Utility

Kernel MBOX Viewer is an independent tool that does not require any
assistance from other tool. Being a self-sufficient utility, Kernel MBOX
Viewer is widely used by most system professionals. Soon after its
installation, you can carry out previewing of MBOX items without any
delay.

## Previewing Data

Preview option often benefits user by providing a chance to view data
items like mails, contacts, folders, drafts, appointments, etc. By doing
so, user remains assured that MBOX files are intact and no data was lost
in thin air.

## Processing of Multiple MBOX files

Kernel MBOX Viewer remains entirely accountable for processing of
single/multiple files in a single cycle. The selection of MBOX files
entirely depends upon user’s requirement. However, user must remain
assure that no data mingling will take place during entire process.

## Equipped with email filtering options

The email filtering option makes Kernel MBOX Viewer more adorable among
its users as it presents retrieval of MBOX emails on the basis of
different criteria like To, From, Subject, Date/Time, and Folder. This
all is done with the help of powerful filters that are deemed to do so
without any error. Thus, Kernel MBOX Viewer works well!

## Saves retrieved email lists in HTML

Kernel MBOX Viewer has inbuilt capability to save the retrieved MBOX
files in HTML format. This makes accessibility to MBOX files flexible
from other web browsers like Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, Firefox,
etc. This feature of Kernel MBOX Viewer is best for those users who
don’t have direct access to MBOX files.

# Licensing

For details regarding licensing of Kernel for MBOX Viewer, visit to
official website is requested.

# Support

Kernel Data Recovery provides quick and satisfactory technical support
throughout the year. Moreover, response to any technical query is dealt
through email or call as per choice of the user.

# External Links

* [Official Website](http://www.nucleustechnologies.com/)
