---
tags:
  - Analysis
---
Kernel for OLM Viewer is a advance tool that reveals its true value when
user system is completely devoid of Outlook for Mac. In absence of Mac
Outlook, this tool provides direct and easy access to Outlook files
without any technical mishaps.

# Overview

Most users face awkward situation when they have to access the OLM files
which remain inaccessible due to either compatibility issues or
non-availability through proper means. Kernel for OLM Viewer is the
perfect solution to act in such situation. This outstanding tool not
only facilitates display of OLM data items but also provides File
Analysis Report that entails information about OLM file data.

# Features

Kernel for OLM Viewer is efficient in accessing healthy and corrupted
OLM files in complete absence of Outlook for Mac. The sophisticated
algorithm, with reserved developing rights, accomplishes this task
efficiently without losing data items and maintaining the hierarchy of
data.

## Independent Existence

Kernel for OLM Viewer has an independent existence. This clearly carves
out the clear picture that Kernel for OLM Viewer can handle OLM files in
complete absence of Mac Outlook.

## Determining about OLM files

Generation of File Analysis Report purely determines the entire
information regarding concerned OLM files. It gives the detailed
information regarding Total item types, Mail flow density by date, Mail
flow density by senders, and Interaction between users. Apart from this
feature, the message list folder of an OLM folder can be saved in HTML
format.

## Access of OLM files in Windows OS

Compatibility issues with OLM files are quite common issues that user
face. The tool has been designed in such a manner that the OLM files can
be perfectly opened even in other platforms like Windows OS. This
feature puts down the compatibility issue and permits user to access OLM
files from any system without taking assistance.

## Looks for specific OLM emails

Kernel for OLM Viewer is customized with an ancillary feature for
locating specific emails that are important to the user. The specific
email is looked on the basis of certain criteria like From, To, Subject,
Received before, Received after, and Message has attachments.

## View items of healthy and damaged files

Kernel for OLM Viewer provides access to damaged and healthy OLM files
without any irregularities in data integrity. This clearly depicts that
irrespective of OLM file condition, the tool is capable to retrieve data
items without any issue. Thus, by accessing such filers, this tool
fulfills need of every user.

# Licensing

For details regarding licensing of Kernel for OLM Viewer, visit to
official website is requested.

# Support

Kernel Data Recovery provides quick and satisfactory technical support
throughout the year. Moreover, response to any technical query is dealt
through email or call as per choice of the user.

# External Links

* [Official Website](http://www.nucleustechnologies.com/)
