---
tags:
  - Analysis
---
Kernel for Outlook Express Password Recovery is a professional software
developed by Kernel Data Recovery. It's specifically programmed to
recover all types of passwords of Outlook Express email accounts.

# Overview

Kernel for Outlook Express Password Recovery tool was officially
introduced by Kernel Data Recovery in May, 2006. The tool joined the
Kernel's vast range of free software. The advanced tool, specially
programmed for recovering passwords of Outlook Express email accounts,
is available online for free download. The tool used to be a paid one at
the time of launch but now itâ€™s available free of cost.

# Interface

The Graphical User Interface (GUI) of the software is quite
easy-to-understand. It displays all functions on its welcome screen.
Simply download the software and launch it. On the welcome screen, click
on the 'Recover' button and the tool displays all email accounts
alongwith their username and passwords.

Any kind of technical or non-technical assistance is not required to
operate Kernel for Outlook Express Password Recovery tool. Even if any
support is required, Kernel Data Recovery's tech support team is
available 24\*7.

# Features

## Multi-lingual Passwords

Outlook Express Password Recovery tool can recover extremely complex and
multi-lingual passwords easily. The advanced tool takes hardly any time
for recovering any kind of password. It displays all email accounts
alongwith their username & passwords and provides option to save them.

## Ensures Quick Recovery

Outlook Express Password Recovery tool is programmed to provide quick
results. It can recover any kind of password (lost, forgotten, passwords
with characters of different languages, etc.) within a very short span
of time.

## Easy to Operate

Kernel for Outlook Express Password Recovery tool carries a
user-friendly and interactive interface. All its features are very much
self-explained. Welcome screen of the tool explains all features. Just a
single click recovers all email account passwords.

## Compatibility

Kernel for Outlook Express Password Recovery tool offers high software
compatibility. It can recover passwords of all Outlook Express versions
including 6.0, 5.5, 5.0, and 4.0. And, it can be used with all versions
of Windows operating system including Windows 8.1, 8, 7, Vista, XP,
2000, 98, NT and 95.

# Software License

Kernel for Outlook Express Password Recovery is a free tool. There are
no downloading charges. The tool can be downloaded from the official
website of Kernel Data Recovery.

# Customer Support

Kernel Data Recovery provides 24\*7 technical support to all its
customers. The tech support team at Kernel is always ready to assist its
customers through emails, Live chat or call to resolve any query related
to any Kernel software.

# External Links

* [Official Website](https://www.nucleustechnologies.com/)
