---
tags:
  - Analysis
---
Kernel for Outlook PST Viewer is a freeware to open and read the
inaccessible content of Outlook offline storage table (PST files). The
utility can retrieve the total stored items of PST files including
e-mail messages, contact items, calendar entries, etc. without using MS
Outlook environment. The freeware first scans and examines the health of
PST files, before displaying the data. The scanning process is quick,
often performed in a matter of seconds; wherein the inaccessible data is
made readable to the users, regardless of the intensity and nature of
damage. The embedded QFSCI algorithms play the core contribution in
opening the corrupt or damaged PST files, without taking the assistance
of external repairing tool.

Kernel Outlook PST Viewer was officially launched on September 4, 2010
by Kernel Data Recovery. The Viewer is available for free use, but
accessible only for Windows-supported operating platforms (including the
latest edition: Windows 10).

# Overview

Kernel Outlook PST Viewer was the second freeware after Kernel OST
Viewer, which was provided for restriction-free public use. The software
is a standalone e-mail reading program that can execute only on
Windows-enabled operating device. The content is simple to view from any
selected PST file of any Outlook version (even including 2016 and 2013).

# Interface

The Viewer has intuitive Graphical User Interface (GUI) design to
provide easy navigation and hassle-free working on the utility. The
process involves three simple steps, i.e. Select the file, Scan the file
and preview the content of the file. It requires no necessary technical
expertise for the users, due to its self-descriptive working
environment. All versions of Outlook files (including ANSI and UNICODE
format) are supported by the freeware.

The interface has neat and minimal design, embedded with various
features to support user-friendly working. One of the examples is the
embedded Search feature, to accelerate the speed and cut the manual
effort in locating Outlook data file, even if the precise location is
unknown to the user. Kernel Outlook PST Viewer also features an
exclusive facility to mark the deleted items in red color, offering
convenience to readers in quickly identifying the relevant content.

# Features

## Read Corrupt Files

The freeware can open corrupt, damaged or inaccessible Outlook data
files that were damaged due to unfavorable conditions caused from
different circumstances, like exceeding the size of predefined storage
quota, incorrect file system recovery, virus intrusion, deficiencies in
Outlook programs, abnormal Outlook termination and more.

## Scanning Mode

The program uses internal scanning algorithms to make the inaccessible
data viewable. Although, the user cannot view the scanning phase, as it
is processed in the logical part of the program and is executed in a
matter of seconds. Upon the completion of the scanning phase, the total
list of contained items of file (including the deleted and
password-protected data) are displayed in the preview pane.

## Real-time Preview Facility

Kernel Outlook PST Viewer facilitates a real-time environment similar to
Outlook interface, wherein it displays the file items with exact names
of folders and sub-folders: Inbox, Outbox, Journals, contacts, Notes,
RSS Feeds, etc. contained in the original files. The tool provides the
privilege to view data items in details such as e-mails with complete
view access to attachments.

## View Filter

Refine and customize the view of data from inbuilt filters (like from,
subject, to, received before, received after, and message has
attachment). The filter organizes and sorts specific data items falling
in specified rate range and other different criteria selected by the
user.

## Generate Report

The program facilitates the option to view file analysis report of
selected folder through these four option: Interaction between the
users, Total item types, mail flow density by sender, and mail flow
density by date. A graphical representation of data is displayed to the
reader, based upon the selected mode of report.

# Licensing

Kernel Outlook PST Viewer is a free data reader for Outlook PST files
without concerning the condition of file. More information pertaining to
licensing can be retrieved on the official website of Kernel Data
Recovery.

# External Links

* [Official Website](http://www.nucleustechnologies.com/)
