---
tags:
  - Analysis
---
Kernel Yahoo Archive reader is an instant message decoder developed by
Kernel Data Recovery that retrieves conversation logs and contact list
lost due to uninstallation of the Yahoo messenger from the computer
system. The tool extracts the complete information from the Yahoo
archive directory that is stored by default on user’s computer hard
disk.

# Features

Kernel Yahoo Archive Reader offers intuitive options to access and
restore Yahoo messenger’ archive messages and chat logs swiftly. It is
compatible with all the major versions of Yahoo messenger.

## Flexible Instant message decoder

The software decodes chat conversations, archive SMS and other
activities accumulated in the Yahoo Archive directory without requiring
any login information such as username, email id or password in the
absence of internet connection. In addition, it offers two different
modes to read the archives. User can read either all Yahoo messenger
conversation from Yahoo Archive directory or can view specific archives
using .dat files.

## Reads External Archives

Kernel Yahoo Archive reader provides facility to import external
Archives and extract required information from them. Archives can be
imported from a portable device, mobile phone or any remote device.

## Facilitates Archive restoration

After decoding and reading the Yahoo messenger conversations, user can
even restore them in HTML format with this software. In specific
situations user need to extract information and save them for future
purposes, this software fulfills such intentions splendidly.

## Monitors activities

From monitoring point of view, user can install this software to keep a
check on other people’s conversation such as an employer can extract
employee’s conversation archives. Even SMS sent from Yahoo messenger can
be tracked with this software.

# Licensing

Read the licensing information regarding the software in detail from the
Official website of Kernel Yahoo Archive reader.

# Support

With every license of Kernel Yahoo Archive reader, user gets lifetime
free technical assistance to resolve any kind of issues at any time. A
software manual is embedded in the help section of the software for
user’s feasibility. For any kind of queries can reach the technical team
via phone, email or live chat.

# External Links

* [Official Website](http://www.nucleustechnologies.com/)
