---
tags:
  - Analysis
---
Kernel Password Unmask is a password recovery freeware to reveal hidden
passwords contained in the standard password-text-box of any Windows
application or program. The software has advanced programming algorithms
to quickly and accurately unmask the password characters, concealed
behind the asterisks symbols of the provided application.

# Overview

Kernel Password Unmask is a free utility to view hidden password of the
currently-opened window of any FTP client software like FlashFXP,
CuteFTP, SmartFTP etc. It can be a helpful utility to retrieve missing,
misplaced or forgotten passwords of different FTP accounts, without
being affected from various factors like length and complexity
incorporated by the passwords.

Kernel Password Unmask is one of the many free tools developed by Kernel
Data Recovery, which is offered in the specified category of Kernel Free
Tools.

# Interface

The program is easy to download and use. It involves only a single step
to unmask the password of the desired password screen, upon the
successful installation. The freeware requires no necessary set of
technical skills for the users to operate the tool.

# Features

## Suitable for multiple FTP Clients

Kernel Password Unmask is an independent software to unveil the unmasked
password of open password window from any selected FTP clients including
CuteFTP, FlashFXP, SmartFTP etc. The password is displayed conveniently
in the password window of the selected application or program.

## Windows-compatible program

The software is exclusively developed to work with Windows-supported
operating systems. It supports all the modern versions of the Windows
platform including Windows 8.1, 8, 7, Vista, XP, 2000, 98, NT, and 95.

# Licensing

The freeware is accessible for free download and public use. Refer the
official website to get more information related to Licensing.

# External Links

* [Official Website](https://www.nucleustechnologies.com/)
