---
tags:
  - Analysis
---
Exchange EDB Viewer provides its user a rich EDB email viewing facility.
The solution is programmed to dynamically generate crystal-clear view of
all email items concentrated in an EDB file without requiring Exchange
Server infrastructure. This outstanding software helps forensic experts
and data recovery professionals to view critical emails, sent items,
calendars, appointments from damaged EDB files.

# Summary

Exchange EDB Viewer is researched and developed by Kernel Data Recovery.
It has been continuously enhanced and optimized through major patches to
meet the volatile IT requirements. The software is freely available on
the product website to fulfill your demands.

# Overview

Exchange EDB Viewer is the cutting-edge solution to view and read email
items of Public as well as Private EDB mailboxes on your stand-alone
computer systems. It is configured with analytical and intuitive
algorithms that eases the work of forensic experts or any email user to
access EDB emails that are damaged by internal or external incidences.
Furthermore, the solution is affixed with upgraded patches that enhances
the compatibility of this product to most advanced MS Exchange Server
editions and Windows Operating Systems.

# Features

Exchange EDB Viewer is integrated with state-of-the-art features that
smoothens and enhances the EDB viewing experience to a great level.

## Self-Sufficient EDB Viewer

Exchange EDB Viewer is specifically innovated to facilitate the rich
preview of EDB emails without requiring the Exchange Server application.
The software formidably produces the managed preview of EDB files
obtained from the versatile Exchange Server editions.

## Read Corrupt EDBs

Exchange EDB Viewer is engineered with best-in-class programming
methodologies that enables the complete extraction of email items from
the corrupt or inaccessible EDB files followed by yielding a high-end
preview of all emails in the default hierarchy.

## Dual Scan Modes

Provision of the Standard and Advanced Scan mode assures the successful
viewing of EDB files from most brutal errors such as Exchange Jet engine
errors, dirty shutdown states, virus corruptions, etc. The quick
Standard mode fiercely removes the minor EDB corruptions, whereas
recursive and intelligent Advanced mode detains the brutal Exchange
corruptions with ease, hence providing rich preview of EDB email items
so recovered.

## Save EDB Data in HTML

The Exchange EDB Viewer software is incorporated with a latest feature
to save EDB email information like Attachment availability, Date, Time,
Serial Number, and Item Type, in the HTML file format that can be
seamlessly accessed with the Internet Explorer browsers. Thus, you can
record every single EDB email that were recovered from the corrupt
Exchange database.

## Render Rich Preview

Exchange EDB Viewer is refurbished with highly responsive preview
functionality that gives you an in-depth view of all enlisted EDB email
items. Folder list pane of the software manages to project all emails in
an accurate hierarchical tree-like structure, which assists user to
identify and view specific emails, public folders, or EDB mailboxes
quickly.

## Technical Specifications

Before successfully launching the software, Exchange EDB Viewer has been
tested against the stringent technical benchmarks, which subsequently
evolves this solution to work with the versatile Exchange platforms such
as Exchange Server 2016, 2013, 2010, 2007, 2003, 2000, 5.5, 5.0.
Furthermore, the software undoubtedly runs on Windows 10, 8.1, 8, 7,
Vista, XP, 2000, 98, NT, or 95 Operating Systems without showing any
signs of technical glitches.

# License Information

For softwareâ€™s license related information, navigate to the official
website.

# Technical Support

24 X 7 technical support services is offered through varied range of
modes, i.e. voice messaging, live chat, instant messaging, telecom, or
video simulations, etc., to rectify the software-related problems.

# External Links

* [Official Website](http://www.nucleustechnologies.com/)
