---
tags:
  - Mobile
  - Windows
---
**Windows Mobile** is an operating system that has both a look-and-feel
and a programmer API that are similar to Microsoft Windows but which
runs in a dramatically reduced footprint. Windows Mobile is the
successor operating system to Windows CE.

## Windows Mobile Versions

Windows Mobile runs on multiple hardware platforms including Pocket PCs,
smartphones, Portable Media Center, and automobiles. These hardware
platforms did not always exist from the inception of Windows Mobile.

### Windows Mobile 2003

Windows Mobile 2003 was released on June 23, 2003, and was the first
release under the Windows Mobile banner. It came in four editions:
"Windows Mobile 2003 for Pocket PC Premium Edition", "Windows Mobile
2003 for Pocket PC Professional Edition", "Windows Mobile 2003 for
Smartphone" and "Windows Mobile 2003 for Pocket PC Phone Edition". The
last was designed especially for Pocket PCs which include phone
functionality. The Professional Edition was used in Pocket PC budget
models such as the iPAQ rz1700 series. It lacked a number of features
that were in the Premium Edition, such as a client for L2TP/IPsec VPNs.
Windows Mobile 2003 was powered by Windows CE 4.20.

### Windows Mobile 2003 Second Edition

Windows Mobile 2003 Second Edition, also known as "Windows Mobile 2003
SE", was released on March 24, 2004 and first offered on the Dell Axim
x30.

### Windows Mobile 5.0

The biggest difference between Windows Mobile 5.0 and previous editions
is that user data in WM5 is no longer stored in volatile memory. This
means that the user data saved on the mobile phone will not be erased if
the battery is disconnected or has depleted. In Windows Mobile 2003, if
the battery depletes, or is disconnected for more than 15 minutes, all
user data is lost.

### Windows Mobile 6

Windows Mobile 6 was released in 2007. Some users are able to update
their Windows Mobile 5 to the new 6.0 version for free. WM6 will
integrate tightly with Windows Vista. Challenges facing forensic
investigators are the support for VoIP and advanced multimedia. While it
is too early to offer details or experiences, it is touting to be more
in line with the Blackberry "push" model then the previous Windows CE
"pull" model.

### Windows Mobile 6.1

Windows Mobile 6.1 was announced April 1, 2008. It is a minor upgrade to
the existing Windows Mobile 6 platform which brings with it a redesigned
Home screen featuring horizontal tiles that expand on clicking to
display more information, although this new home screen is featured only
on Windows Mobile Standard edition. Several other improvements such as
threaded SMS, full page zooming in IE and 'Domain Enroll' have also been
added. Domain Enroll is functionality to connect the device to System
Center Mobile Device Manager 2008, a product to manage mobile devices.

## External Links

- [Official site of Windows Mobile](http://www.microsoft.com/windowsmobile/default.mspx)
- [Free software for Windows Mobile Smartphones](http://www.smartphone-freeware.org/)
