---
tags:
  -  Analysis
  -  Tools
  -  Windows
  -  Free Software
---
*OST Viewer* is an email-viewing product developed by
[SysTools](systools.md). The utility performs examination on
email data of Exchange offline mailbox locally stored as Outlook Data
File OST. OST Viewer allows examining Offline Storage Table files (OST)
and cyber investigation officers can probe through emails, calendar,
contacts, etc.

# Summary

OST Viewer was developed and officially processed by SysTools Pvt. Ltd.
Tool was officially launched and released in 2013 in the range of other
email file viewing products. Software went through multiple reformation
and version upgrades. Software is available online for download for
further utility.

# Product Overview

OST Viewer is a freeware application which is developed to read MS
Exchange local cached mailbox file i.e. OST. The application is
programmed with investigative and analytical prospective with outcome
results suitable for forensic examination. OST File Viewer is
Windows-oriented utility compatible with all versions of Windows. It
also extends its compatibility towards all versions of MS Outlook
reading OST files belonging to any version.

# Features

OST file reader is developed with algorithms to read file in corrupted
or healthy state. Tool is GUI-based and with patent technology of adding
files, displays the contents of data file added.

## Independent OST Viewer

OST file viewer is a standalone utility and bids the viewing property
without requiring Microsoft Outlook or Microsoft Exchange application
installation. OST files belonging to various versions of Outlook can be
analyzed. Except for the requirement of Windows machine to run the
application, it does not obligate any application necessity further.

## Preview All Data-types

Preview deliberately display all the components of OST file. It supports
viewing list of email messages, address book, calendar schedules, tasks,
journals, etc. separated in different indexing units. Preview of
individual items is presented by tool by selecting single email item.
Similarly, other data type content can be viewed individually.

## Scanning Modes

Tool is integrated with algorithms supporting corrupted, orphaned and
inaccessible files. It embeds two scanning modes for representing data
elements viewable in OST File Viewer software. Advance Scan is available
for severely corrupted OST file and for thorough potential scan and
Quick Scan is for healthy state OST file.

## Orphaned/Corrupted OST

Software supports orphaned/inaccessible/inoperative OST file displaying
file data. It also supports OST files in damaged state because of file
integrity issues, header alteration, virus intrusion, disoriented file
structure, inappropriate file handling, etc. It is suggested to use
Advance Scan for corrupted files; orphan files however can be scanned
with Quick Scan.

## View Deleted Data

An augmented facility is provided by OST file viewing tool by displaying
the permanently deleted data items from the file. This gives a wider
prospect to examiners or users for viewing data, which was permanently
evacuated or deleted and was not readable through any other means.

# Licensing

Official website can be referred for information related to Licensing.

# Support

Technical support is offered through various means like emails, chat,
call, ticket service, and demonstration in order to resolve technical or
functioning queries.

## External Links

[Portable OST Viewer for Windows
&Mac](https://www.bitrecover.com/free/ost-viewer/)

[Official Website](http://www.systoolsgroup.com/)

[FREE OST Viewer](https://www.freeviewer.org/ost/)