---
tags:
  - Organization
---
**Palm** is a common term for a small-scale (hand-held) computer that
runs Palm's [PalmOS](palmos.md) software.

# Overview

The Palm OS platform is an open architecture that provides a basis for
third-party developers and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) to
create mobile computing solutions. The platform consists of five
components:

- The reference hardware design
- The device operating system called the Palm OS software
- The HotSync conduit data synchronization technology
- The platform component tools including an applications programming
  interface (API) that enables developers to write applications
- The software interface capabilities to support hardware add-ons

(http://www.palm.com/us/company/pr/2000/092000.html, 2000)

## History

Palm Computing was founded by Jeff Hawkins, Donna Dubinsky and Ed
Colligan. The original purpose of the company was to create handwriting
recognition software for other devices (Graffiti). The initial idea for
the devices came from Hawkins' habit of carrying a block of wood in his
pocket.

The initial Palm device released in 1996 was called the Pilot. Because
Pilot Pen Corporation brought forth a trademark infrigement case, the
second generation device released in 1997 was named the PalmPilot.

The Palm was not the original PDA device released, but benefited from
the failure of Apple's Newton.

The Palm OS initially featured personal information management (PIM)
tools such as Calendar, Contacts, Memo Pad, Expense and Tasks. As later
versions were released, more features were added. Here is a list of
various Palm OS releases:

#### Version 3.1, 3.3, 3.5

Added support for color, multiple expansion ports, new processors, etc.

#### Version 4.0

Added a standard interface for external FS access

#### Version 5.0

First version to support Acorn Risc Machine (ARM) devices. Later
versions which included OS 5.2, featured Graffiti 2. It began the
separation of Palm OS and Palm One.

Presently, version 6.1 of the Palm OS is under development (Cobalt).
Cobalt features a Linux-based kernel. There are presently no devices
released using Palm OS 6.

## Features

<table>
<tr>
<td>

**Address Book**: Allows the user to keep track of their contacts.
Synchronized via HotSync manager

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>

**Calculator**: Basic 4 function calculator

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>

**Datebook**: Track appointments, birthdates and other important times
during the year. Synchronized via HotSync manager

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>

**Expenses**: Keep track of your spending habits.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>

**HotSync**: Application that ran on your desktop or portable PC or Mac
to allow for calendars and contacts to easily be synchronized with Palm
device.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>

**Memo Pad**: Write short notes.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>

**Note Pad**: Scribble notes in your natural writing language.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>

**To Do List**: Create a check list of items to accomplish. Synchronized
via HotSync manager.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>

**Palm Photos**: Photo manager that allows sharing of photos between
multiple palm devices.

</td>
</tr>
</table>

## Palm Pilot

The original creators of the Palm Pilot were Jeff Hawkins, Donna
Dubinsky, and Ed Colligan. The idea of the palm pilot was established by
Jeff Hawkins from a block of wood with writing on it.

<table border="1">
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<th>

`  Palm Pilot 1000`
`  `

</th>
<th>

`  Palm Pilot 5000`
`  `

</th>
<th>

`  Palm Pilot Personal`
`  `

</th>
<th>

`  Palm Pilot Professional`
`  `

</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>

Features

</th>
<td>

Motorola 68328 processor

</ul>

128 KB memory

</ul>

Palm OS 1.0

</ul>
</td>
<td>

Dragonball processor

</ul>

512 KB memory

</ul>

Palm OS 1.0

</ul>
</td>
<td>

Dragonball processor

</ul>

512 KB memory

</ul>

Palm OS 2.0

</ul>
</td>
<td>

Dragonball processor

</ul>

1 MB memory

</ul>

Palm OS 2.0

</ul>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

## 3Com Audrey

The 3Com Audrey was created to be a kitchen computer in 2000-2001. It
was a mainly a used to access the Internet. Cisco then bought out 3Com
and the Audrey was no more. One noticeable aspect of the Audrey is how
people can hack it. They have turned it into anything from a web server
to a chatting client. It runs QNX with PalmOS extensions. This allows it
to be hacked extremely easily.

It runs on the Intel-compatible Cyrix-MediaGX processor. It uses Palm's
HotSync technology to update the address book and date book with up to
two Palms simultaneously. It uses a USB Ethernet controller to connect
to the Internet. It also has built-in stereo speakers to play digital
and streaming music. You can either use the clear pen to input data, or
pull out the wireless keyboard. No graffiti is used.

It was discontinued on March 21, 2001. However, there is still an Audrey
frenzy going on today.

## Fossil

This is a very neat model as it is a digital watch with the Palm OS
version 4.1 installed. It comes in two brands: Abacus and Fossil.

<table border="1">
<tr>
<th>

Operating System

</th>
<th>

Memory

</th>
<th>

LCD Dimensions

</th>
<th>

Other Notable Features

</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>

Palm OS version 4.1

</td>
<td>

8 MB

</td>
<td>

160 x 160 with backlight

</td>
<td>

Touch screen

</ul>

3 way rocker and back button

</ul>

USB for Windows and Macintosh

</ul>

Infrared port

</ul>

3 hour lifespan between charges

</ul>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

## Garmin

## Kyocera

Kyocera acquired QUALCOMM Incorporated's Code Division Multiple Access
(CDMA) wireless phone business in February 2000 and incorporates
QUALCOMM's CDMA technology in the development and manufacture of
wireless phones. An agreement with Palm Inc. to license the Palm OS
platform was reached by Kyocera and Palm after QUALCOMM's acquisition.
It is the foundation for a suite of smartphones.

## QualComm

In September 1998, QUALCOMM introduced the pdQ smartphone which was the
first CDMA digital wireless phone to integrate the Palm OS software.
QUALCOMM’s CDMA handset business was later bought by Kyocera in February
2000.

## Samsung

## Sony CliÈ

## Symbol

## TapWave

## TRG

## Handspring Visor

The original creators of the PalmPilot, Jeff Hawkins, Donna Dubinsky,
and Ed Colligan, left Palm Computing after desputes with the parent
company 3com. As a result, the trio founded Handspring in 1998. The
first product released in 1999 was called the Handspring Visor, a clone
of the original PalmPilot with minor additions, that used the newly
created Palm OS. One of it's most prominent features was USB support and
an expansion slot for memory cards, both of which were not yet popular
at the time.

The Visor line includes:

- Visor and Visor Deluxe
- Visor Prism
- Visor Platinum
- Visor Edge
- Visor Neo
- Visor Pro

## Treo

Treo manufacturers a variety of devices, including the LifeDrive, Treo
600, 650, 700w and 700p, Palm Z22 and Tx, and the Tungsten E2. Each of
these devices is marketed at a different segment of the market. For
example, the LifeDrive contains a 4GB integrated hard drive and is
advertised as a portable multimedia device that plays videos and MP3s.
The LifeDrive Also includes integrated WiFi and Bluetooth capabilities.
The Treo 600, 650, 700w and 700p are the company's Smartphones. The Treo
600, 650 and 700p runs Palm OS, while the 700w runs on Windows Mobile 5.
The Z22, Tx, and Tungsten E2 are primarily designed to be personal
organizers.

# Forensics

Forensics for Palm devices is a nascent field. There are several tools
available for the image acquisition and analysis of Palm devices.

## EnCase

EnCase, published by Guidance Software, is a complete cyber forensics
software package that handles all steps of the investigative process,
from the acquisition to the report creation. The software includes
built-in capabilities for performing MD5 hashing, data carving, deleted
file recovery, and many other functions.

Although traditionally relegated to the realm of desktop computer
forensics investigations, EnCase does support the acquisition and
analysis of a limited number of Palm devices.

## Paraben

Paraben has a software application that is specifically designed for PDA
forensics, PDA Seizure. This comprehensive tool allows PDA data to be
acquired, viewed, and reported on, all within a Windows environment. The
software comes equiped with quite a few key features. These features
include the ability to encrypt saved case files, [BlackBerry
OS](blackberry_os.md) support, built-in recovery of Palm
passwords, enhanced viewing on file data, complete physical and logical
acquisition for Palm PDA devices, and many more. It has a few draw
backs, in that some of the material acquired from the PDAs is hard to
interpret by a person that is not computer savi. Although, on the other
hand it has features like a search portion that allows you to enter a
search term and PDA Seizure will bring up all files that have that term
in them. This allows the investigator to look for case specific
information easily and quickly.

# References

* [Wikipedia: Palm (PDA)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palm_(PDA))
