---
tags:
  - No Category
---
A **Radio Frequency (RF) Jammer** is a device used to disrupt or prevent
communication via a broadcasted RF signal.

## The Basics of Cell Phone Jamming

Cell phones work by communicating with a service network through the
utilization of cellular towers or base stations. Individual towers
partition cities into small sections called cells. As a cell phone user
traverses the cells in an area, the signal is passed from tower to
tower.

Jamming devices take advantage of this fact by transmitting on the
spectrum of radio frequencies used by cellular devices. Through its
concurrent transmission, the jamming device is able to disrupt the
two-way communication between the phone and the base station. This form
of a denial-of-service attack inhibits all cellular communication within
range of the device.

## How It's Done

Through the transmission of a high power signal on the same frequency of
a cell phone, the jamming device creates a competing signal that
collides with, and, in effect, cancels out the cellular signal. Cell
phones, which are designed to increase power in the case of low levels
of interference, react to this interference. Consequently, jamming
devices must be aware of any increases in power by the cellular device
and match that power level accordingly.

As cellular telephones are full-duplex devices utilizing two separate
frequencies (one for talking, one for listening, where all parties to a
call can talk at the same time as opposed to half-duplex walkie-talkies
and CBs), any removal of one of these frequencies tricks the phone into
thinking there is no cellular service. Consequently, the jammer need
only block one of the frequencies.

The less complex jammers can only block a specific frequency group while
the more complex jammers can block several different networks thus
preventing dual- or tri-mode phones from switching to a different
network with an open signal. Jammers are able to broadcast on any
frequency and can interrupt AMPS,
[CDMA](cdma.md), [TDMA](tdma.md), [GSM](gsm.md),
PCS, DCS, [iDEN](iden.md)
and Nextel systems. The effective range of a jammer is dependent upon
the strength of its power source and the immediate pysical environment
(hills or walls which may block the jamming signal). Lower powered
jammers have a call-block range of about 30 feet while higher power
units can create a cellular signal-free zone about the size of a
football field. In addition, certain units applied by law enforcement
have been known to shut down cellular service approximately 1 mile from
the jamming device.

## What's Inside a Cell Phone Jammer

RF jammers are fairly simplistic devices. The most simple jammers have
only an on/off switch and an LED signifying power to the unit. The more
complex devices contain switches or dials that allow the user to select
the frequencies desired for jamming. The components which can be located
in every jammer include:

**Antenna** -- The antenna transmits the jammers interrupting signal.
Certain jammers contain an internal antenna while others have external
antennas which give the user a longer range to broadcast the signal and
more control over frequency tuning.

**Voltage-controlled oscillator** -- The oscillator is responsible for
generating the competing radio signal.

**Tuning circuit** -- In those units the enable user-specified frequency
tuning, the tuning circuit controls the broadcast frequency of the
circuit by sending a specific voltage to the oscillator.

**Noise generator** -- The noise generator, which is part of the tuning
circuit, actually creates radomized electric output within a specific
frequency range which is used to disrupt a cellular network signal.

**RF amplification (gain stage)** -- This amplifier controls the level
of power to the tuning circuit. It is responsible for boosting the power
as necessary to jam signals.

**Power Supply** -- Smaller jamming devices may use batteries while
larger and more power-intensive devices can be plugged into a standard
outlet or connected through the electrical system of a vehicle.

## In Which Legal Situations are RF Jammers Used?

Originally developed for law enforcement and military, RF jammers have
been mainly used to disrupt the communications of criminals and
terrorists. One of the most useful applications has been to use RF
jammers to prevent the use of cell-phone activated bombs in subways,
airports, and the routes of presidential motorcades. Furthermore, in
hostage situations, police can use RF jammers to place controls on when
and where the criminal can make a call. In drug raids, jammers can be
used to prevent outside communication. Finally, corporations have also
been known to use RF jammers to prevent corporate espionage by blocking
voice and image transmissions from camera-enabled phones.

## Legal Issues of Using RF Jammers

The United States, United Kingdom, Australia, and many other countries
have determined that cell-phone blocking is illegal. Explicitly, the
United States calls upon the Communications Act of 1934 to enforce such
a law as it prevents people from "willfully or maliciously interfering
with the radio communications of any station licensed or authorized."
Furthermore, manufacturing, importing, and advertising RF jamming
devices is also considered illegal.

To explain, jamming is actually seen as property theft because a private
company has purchased the rights to a particular portion of the radio
spectrum. Simply put, jamming that frequency is seen as stealing the
private property of that company. Secondly, RF jamming is seen as a
safety hazard as it could potentially block important and urgent phone
calls, such as calls for police or an ambulance.

The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) enforces the jamming laws
but has yet to actually prosecute anyone. However, if convicted,
first-offense penalties could include: 1. Up to \$11,000 fine. 2. One
year imprisonment. 3. Seizure of device.
