---
tags:
  - No Category
---
Used hard drives are frequently a good source of images for testing
forensic tools. That's because many individuals, companies and
organizations neglect to properly sanitize their hard drives before they
are sold on the secondary market.

You can find used hard drives on eBay, at swap meets, yard sales, and
even on the street.

# Popular Press

## ATMs

- **2009-11-21**: Robert Siciliano, a security consultant to
  Intelius.com and personal ID theft expert, buys an ATM machine for
  \$750 from a bar in Boston. The machine comes with more than 1000
  credit and ATM card numbers.
  <http://www.theregister.co.uk/2009/11/18/second_hand_atm_fraud_risk/>

## Memory Sticks

- USED memory sticks being sold on the internet have been found to
  contain sensitive Australian government data, according to a study
  Patryk Szewczyk and Krishnun Sansurooah, of the Security Research
  Institute at Perth's Edith Cowan University.

## Hard Drives

There have been several incidents in which individual have purchased a
large number of hard drives and written about what they have found. This
web page is an attempt to catalog all of those stories in chronological
order.

- **2003-01**: [Simson Garfinkel](simson_garfinkel.md) and Abhi
  Shelat at MIT publish a study in *IEEE Security and Privacy Magazine*
  which documents large amount of personal and business-sensitive
  information found on 150 drives purchased on the secondary market.

<!-- -->

- **2006-06**: A man buys a family's hard drive at a fleamarket in
  Chicago after the family's hard drive is upgraded by Best Buy.
  Apparently somebody at Best Buy violated company policy and instead of
  destroying the hard drive, they sold it.

<!-- -->

- **2006-08-10**: The University of Glamorgan in Wales purchased 317
  used hard drives from the UK, Australia, Germany, and the US. 25% of
  the 200 drives purchased from the UK market had been completely wiped.
  40% of the purchased drives didn't work. 40% came from businesses, of
  which 23% contained enough information to identify the company. 5% had
  business sensitive information. 25% came from individuals, of which
  many had pornography, and 2 had to be referred to the police for
  suspected child pornography.

<!-- -->

- **2006-08-14**: [BBC
  News](http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/business/4790293.stm) reports on bank
  account information recovered from used PC hard drives and being sold
  in Nigeria for £20 each. The PCs had apparently come from recycling
  points run by UK town councils that are then "recycled" by being sent
  to Africa.

<!-- -->

- **2006-08-15**: Simson Garfinkel presents results of a study of 1000
  hard drives (750 working) at the 2006 Workshop on Digital Forensics.
  Results of the study show that information can be correlated across
  hard drives using Garfinkel's [Cross Drive Analysis](cross_drive_analysis.md)
  approach.

<!-- -->

- **2007-02-06**: Fulcrum Inquiry, a Los Angeles litigation support firm,
  purchased 70 used hard drives from 14 firms and discovered confidential
  information on 2/3rds of the drives.

<!-- -->

- **2007-08-30**: Bill Ries-Kinght, an IT consultant, purchases a 120GB
  Seagate hard drive on eBay for \$69. Although the drive was advertised
  as being new, it apparently was previously used by the campaign of
  Mike Beebe, who won the Arkansas state governorship in November 2006.
  "Among the files were documents listing the private cell phone numbers
  of political allies, including US Senators Blanch Lincoln and Mark
  Pryor and US Representatives Marion Berry, Mike Ross and Vic Snyder.
  It also included talking points to guide the candidate as he called
  influential people whose support he sought," states an article
  published in [The Register](http://www.theregister.co.uk/2007/08/30/governors_data_sold_on_ebay/).

<!-- -->

- **2008-01-28**: Gregory Evans, a security consultant in Marina Del Ray,
  Calif., bought a \$500 computer at a swap meet from a former mortgage company.
  It contained credit reports on 300 people in a deleted file, according to an
  article published in The New York Daily News. The security consultant was also
  able to recover the usernames and passwords of the mortgage company's former
  employees.

<!-- -->

- **2009-02-10**: Michael Kessler, CEO of Kessler International, a New
  York City forensics firm, bought 100 "relatively modern drives, the
  vast majority of them Serial ATA" from eBay over the course of 6
  months. The drives ranged in size from 400GB to 300GB. 40% of the
  drives were found to contain sensitive data.
  [1](http://www.computerworld.com/action/article.do?command=viewArticleBasic&taxonomyName=storage&articleId=9127717&taxonomyId=19&intsrc=kc_top)

<!-- -->

- **2009-05-07**: University of Glamorgan bought disks in its annual
  survey of used hard drives and found "Details of test launch
  procedures for the THAAD (Terminal High Altitude Area Defence)
  ground-to-air missile defence system. [Missile data found on hard
  drives, BBC News, May 7,
  2009](http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/wales/8036324.stm)

<!-- -->

- **2009-07-30**: Reporters working for the PBS show Frontline on an
  article about electronic waste find hard drives in Ghana that contain
  "hundreds and hundreds of documents about government contracts" from a
  hard drive that had been previously used by a TSA subcontractor. The
  documents were marked "competitive sensitive" and covered contracts
  with the Defense Intelligence Agency. The hard drive was not
  encrypted. [Reporters find Northrop Grumman data in Ghana market,
  Robert McMillan, IT World, June 24,
  2009](http://itworld.com/security/69758/reporters-find-northrop-grumman-data-ghana-market)

<!-- -->

- **2009-09-23**: The Inspector General of the United States Department
  of Defense issues a report about the widespread sale and return of
  equipment containing sensitive information. [Report No. D-2009-104
  September 21, 2009 Sanitization and Disposal of Excess Information
  Technology Equipment](https://nsi.org/ReferenceLibrary/756.pdf).

<!-- -->

- **2010-12-08**: NSAS decomissions 14 computers with hard drives that
  "failed tests to verify data had been destroyed.''' The drives turn up
  in a dumpster with sensitive information regarding the Space Shuttle.
  [Reported By Dan Goodin in San Francisco, The Register, 8th December
  2010](http://www.theregister.co.uk/2010/12/08/nasa_disk_wiping_failure/)

<!-- -->

- **2012-04-25**: A report published by the UK Information Commissioner's
  Office finds that 1 in 10 hard drives sold on the secondary market contains
  highly sensitive information, based on a "mystery shopper" study in which an
  organization purchased 200 hard drives on the Internet and at used computer
  fairs. Sophie Curtis, "InfoSec 2012: One in 10 second-hand hard drives
  contain personal data, April 2012.

<!-- -->

- **2013-07-14**: UK's National Health Service Surrey was fined a £200,000
  (\$300,000) after it sold a hard drive that contained 3,000 patient records
  (2,000 children and 900 adults). Apparently the drives were provided to a PC
  recycler on the grounds that they be destroyed. The recycler provided a
  destruction certificate, then sold the drives on eBay. A member of the public
  bought the drive, discovered what they had, and alerted the authorities.
  \[Source: Hospital fined £200,000 after hard drive full of patient data bought
  on eBay, By John E Dunn, Techworld, 14 July 2013\]

## Cell Phones

- [BlackBerry Reveals Bank's
  Secrets](http://www.wired.com/techbiz/media/news/2003/08/60052),
  Wired, August 8, 2005.
- [Who has your old phone's
  data](http://www.taipeitimes.com/News/feat/archives/2008/09/28/2003424400),
  Pete Warren, The Guardian, London, Sept. 28, 2008, page 13.
- [McCain Campaign Sells Info-Loaded Blackberry to FOX 5
  Reporter](http://www.myfoxdc.com/myfox/pages/News/Detail?contentId=8055902&version=1&locale=EN-US&layoutCode=TSTY&pageId=3.2.1),
  by Tisha Thompson and Rick Yarborough, FOX 5 Investigative Unit, 11
  December 2008. (See also
  [2](http://www.theregister.co.uk/2008/12/12/mccain_blackberry/))

## Cameras

- [Camera sold on eBay contained MI6
  files](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/3107003/Camera-sold-on-eBay-contained-MI6-files.html),
  Jessica Salter, Telegraph, September 30, 2008.

## Network Equipment

- [Council sells security hole on Ebay](http://www.pcpro.co.uk/news/227190/council-sells-security-hole-on-ebay.html),
  Matthew Sparkes, PC Pro, September 29, 2008 - Kirkless Council (UK)
  sells a Cisco [VPN](vpn.md) 3002 Concentrator on Ebay for 99
  pence. The device is purchased by Andrew Mason, a security consultant,
  who discovers that the Cisco [VPN](vpn.md) device still has
  the full configuration for the Kirkless Council and the device hasn't
  been deactivated.

## MP3 Players

- NZ man's MP3 player holds US military files,
  Associated Press, Jan 27, 2009. A man from New Zealand bought an MP3
  player at a thrift shop in Oklahoma that had 60 US military files,
  "including names and telephone numbers for American soldiers."

# Academic Publications

<bibtex> @article{JICLT80,

`   author = {Andy Jones and Glenn Dardick and Gareth Davies and Iain Sutherland and Craig Valli},`
`   title = {The 2008 Analysis of Information Remaining on Disks Offered for Sale on the Second Hand Market},`
`   journal = {Journal of International Commercial Law and Technology},`
`   volume = {4},`
`   number = {3},`
`   year = {2009},`
`   keywords = {Computer forensics, disk analysis, data recovery, data disposal, data destruction, data leakage, privacy.},`
`   abstract = {`

The use of computers that contain hard disks to process and store
information has been ubiquitous across organisations in both the public
and private sector for more than two decades and is being ever more
widely used by individuals in the home. During that time, the processing
capability of the computers has increased enormously. At the same time
the storage capacity of the computers has increased from tens of
Megabytes to hundreds of Gigabytes and the use of Terabyte
storage devices in both commercial and private locations is now becoming
increasingly common. In recent years, because of social change and
alterations in the way in which organisations work, there has also been
an increasing trend in the use of the same computer to process and store
both the organisation’s and the individuals personal information. It is
clear that the majority of organisations and private individuals still
remain ignorant or misinformed of the potential volume and type of
information that is stored on the hard disks contained within these
computer systems. As a result, they have not considered, or are unaware
of, the potential impact of this information becoming available to an
unintended third party.

This is the fourth study in an ongoing research effort that is being
conducted into the volume and type of information that remains on
computer hard disks offered for sale on the second hand market. The
research has been undertaken to gain an understanding of the level and
types of information that remains on these disks and to determine the
damage that could, potentially be caused, if the information was
misused. These studies have examined a large number of disks that have
been purchased in a number of countries. The rationale for this was to
determine whether there are any national or regional differences in the
way that computer disks are disposed of and to compare the results for
any regional or temporal trends.


The first study was carried out in 2005 and has been repeated annually
with the scope extended to include additional research partners and
countries during each of the subsequent years. The studies were carried
out by British Telecommunications and the University of Glamorgan in the
UK, Edith Cowan University in Australia and Longwood University in the
USA.


The core methodology of the research has remained the same over the
duration of the study: to acquire a number of second hand computer disks
from a range of sources and then to determine whether they still
contained information relating to a previous owner or if the device had
been effectively erased. If the disks still contained information, the
research examined whether it was in a sufficient volume and of enough
sensitivity to the original owner to represent a risk if unintentionally
exposed to a third party. One of the results of the research has been
that for a very large proportion of the disks that have been examined,
there was significant information present and both organisations and
individuals were potentially exposed to the possibility of a compromise
of sensitive information. Potential impacts of this might include
embarrassment to individuals and organisations, fraud, blackmail and
identity theft. It is noted that where the disks had originally been
owned by organisations, they had, in most cases, failed to meet their
statutory, regulatory and legal obligations.


In the 2008 study, the fourth in the series, the research methodology
that had been followed in the previous studies was repeated, but in
addition the scope was again broadened geographically to include disks
sourced from within France.

},

`   issn = {1901-8401},`

} </bibtex>

# See Also

* [Residual Data](residual_data.md)
* [Residual Data in Document Files](residual_data_in_document_files.md)
* [Privacy Rights Clearinghouse Chronology of Data Breaches](http://www.privacyrights.org/data-breach?order=field_breach_total_value&sort=desc)
