---
tags:
  - Organization
---
**SalvationDATA** is a world-leading integrated solutions provider of computer
forensics, mobile forensics, CCTV DVR forensics, data security and E-discovery.
As a pioneer of the industry, SalvationDATA is always committed to providing
innovation platform with proprietary technologies for Law Enforcement Agencies,
Government, Military Intelligence Agencies, Digital Forensics Laboratories and
Corporations, etc.  SalvationDATA’s professional engineers and forensic experts
are dedicated to providing outstanding service to more than 9,000 customers
from over 130 countries around the world.On top of that, SalvationDATA also
stands out as a world-leading manufacturer of forensic laboratory platform and
equipment.

SalvationDATA concentrates on research and development, and has persistently
pursued innovation. The core technologies include data recovery and extraction,
data disposal, privacy protection and digital forensics, especially Firmware
Analog™, Shadow Disk™, DBER™ which have effectively resolved data lost of all
kinds of storage media. SalvationDATA’s products are widely used in digital
forensics, data security, data recovery and E-discovery.

SalvationDATA's product line covers 3 main fields, i.e. computer forensics,
mobile forensics and CCTV DVR forensics.

Data Recovery System (DRS) is the next generation intelligent all-in-one
forensic data recovery tool which can help you acquire and recover data from
both good and damaged storage media like HDD simply and easily. Having
integrated with main functions as disk diagnostics, disk imaging, file
recovery, file carving, firmware recovery, reporting, write protection and hash
calculation, more functional features as fragment recovery, RAIDx automatic
reallocation, break-point recovery, USB3.0 support have been included in DRS as
well. Especially for the workflow of digital forensics, without external write
blocker, read-only port has been embedded in DRS to ensure that data has not
been tampered. Besides, DRS can generate and output detailed reports so that
the investigation process can be clearly documented.

SmartPhone Forensic System (SPF) is a forensically sound system for acquiring,
recovering, analyzing and triage data from mobile devices such as Android
phone, tablets, iPhone&iPad. The system is a powerful and integrated platform
for digital investigation. It allows investigators to examine and ascertain
relevant information from devices easily and efficiently in the field, and
helps them to recover and collect critical forensic evidence even from huge
backlogs of smartphones. As an all-in-one and user friendly system, SPF can
deeply acquire file system, physical and logical evidentiary data from several
mobile OS like Android, iOS, Symbian, Blackberry, etc., especially from 99% of
Chinese brand mobile devices and feature phones. The acquired data includes
communications, contacts, messages, media files, locations and Apps, etc. SPF
is the trusted platform for law enforcement agencies, military, intelligence
agencies and e-discovery investigators all over the world.

Video Investigation Portable (VIP) is a forensically sound system for video
extraction, recovery and analysis from CCTV DVRs of video surveillance system
during investigations. Through VIP, it helps clarify the visual evidence and
restore the truth rapidly. VIP can get access to the CCTV DVRs without
password. And there are four main features of VIP i.e video extraction, video
play, video retrieval and analyze. With these features, VIP could help you
quickly extract video clips from video surveillance system; automatically
retrieve video evidence from abundant video clips; successfully get access to
encrypted or destroyed CCTV DVRs.

## External Links

* [Official web site](http://www.salvationdata.com/)
