---
tags:
  - No Category
---
## SurfRecon LE

Surf Recon LE (Law Enforcement edition) is a rapid-analysis,
image-forensics tool designed for first responders, investigating
officers, forensics teams, and every other law-enforcement agency
responsible for processing and prosecuting child pornography and sex
crimes cases. This cross-platform image-analysis tool can search almost
any Windows, Apple, and Linux computer systems for pornographic images
and child pornography quickly and efficiently.

What makes Surf Recon LE such a potent weapon is the IFID (International
Forensic Image Database), a massive database containing millions of
digital hashes that the tool uses to rapidly match and properly identify
safe, pornographic, and child-pornography on a suspect's computer.

Lastly, the ability to rapidly analyze and categorize images on a
computer is only one of the benefits of using Surf Recon LE. One of
other benefits is the applications ability to shield you from the
harmful and destructive effects that pornography and child pornography
in particular can cause.

The application provides a number of obfuscation tools that can minimize
the impact of the remaining pornographic content that must be manually
processed. The same obfuscation tools can be used to share content when
necessary, reducing the impact of the images for those individuals with
whom you have shared the images as well.

No one wants to be exposed to this dark and disturbing content. Surf
Recon LE provides a method to at least reduce the impact of viewing
pornography and protect individuals, their families, and those people
with whom they work.

## External Links

- [Official website](https://www.surfrecon.com/)