---
tags:
  - No Category
---
## Complete Guide: MAB File

All the contacts are maintained in the proper address book of every
email client for the proper management of contacts. Out of which, one
such email application is Thunderbird that stores its address book data
as **Thunderbird Address Book file, MAB (Mozilla Address Book) file**
within the database. Thus, we can say that MAB file format are data
files, which stores all the information of address book of mail
applications. Whereas, whenever contacts are viewed from any email
application then, they are recovered from MAB data file. There are
various other email clients that support MAB file format these are:
SeaMonkey, older Netscape, etc. Some specifications of the MAB file
extension as mentioned below:

**File Type:** Personal Address Book

**MIME Type:** Application/octet-stream

**File Category:** Data File

**Supported Applications:** Thunderbird, SeaMonkey, Netscape, Libre
Office

**Database:** Mork

MAB file format is Mork database’s part that covers all the records of
address books, which are related to all profiles that are configured.

## Types of MAB File

There are basically three types of Mozilla Address Book most commonly
used:

1\. **abook.mab (Personal Address Book):** It is a default folder that
saves all the contacts of Personal Address Book. Thus, when a user saves
their contacts in Personal address book, all their contacts are added to
abook.mab file. If it all the abook.mab file is exported, one can simply
open abook.mab contacts from the Personal Address Book.

2\. **history.mab (Collected Address Book):** Thunderbird and other
email clients maintain a record of contacts automatically for the faster
utilization and data management. All these addresses collected are kept
in history.mab file. It encircles information about all contacts that
have been collected by mail client.

3\. **impab.mab (User-defined or Imported):** If user needs to import
Address book for retaining the embedded contacts then, all the contacts
are saved into impab.mab file. So that, while viewing impab.mab file,
users can get complete records of contacts that are imported.

## Location of Thunderbird Address Book File

At times, users want to browse the real location of .mab file format of
their Thunderbird profile on their system then, it can be located at:

### For Windows Users

`“C:\abc\admin\AppData\Roaming\Thunderbird\Profiles”`

### For Mac Users

`"~/Library/Thunderbird/Profiles/"`

However, users of SeaMonkey can also find the location of .mab file
extension at:

### For Windows Users

`"C:\Users\xyz\AppData\Roaming\Mozilla\Profiles\content`<Profile Name>`"`

### For Mac Users

`~/Library/Application Support/SeaMonkey/Profiles/trainer.`<Profile name>

## How to Open MAB File

Once the user finds the location of MAB data file, the first thing that
arises in mind of most of the users, is to read that Thunderbird Address
Book file MAB. Hence, whenever they open MAB file by simply clicking it,
they are unable to open address book MAB file. An error is caused that
shows, “Windows cannot recognize MAB file format, thus Windows cannot
open MAB file.” Thus, this repeated problem for viewing MAB file makes
an issue for users then, they find a way to view .mab file. Other
possible alternative is to open .mab file in LibreOffice, which gives
right to open and utilize .mab file within its interface. Thus, to open
as well as view .mab file format, follow the stated steps:

1\. Open LibreOffice application on your system.

2\. Then, choose **File** option and select Wizards.

3\. From drop down list, select **Address Data Book Source**.

4\. Choose an **external data source** option.

5\. Select the required type of file to be viewed.

**Limitation-** It can only be made after installing the driver for
viewing Address book .mab file. It is not possible to open .mab file
format without driver installation for it. Therefore, the whole process
is quite complex in using it.

## Conclusion

MAB file plays an important role for each mail application. One can
simply import contacts from Thunderbird Address Book MAB file format
that can be further imported to other email client for usage of existing
contacts. Therefore, all these address book MAB files are important to
be carefully viewed so that no any information can be used while
utilizing.

## External Links

[Wikipedia: MAB](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mork_(file_format))

[What is MAB File Extension](https://www.whatisfileextension.com/mab/)

[Thunderbird Address
Book](http://kb.mozillazine.org/Profile_folder_-_Thunderbird)