---
tags:
  - Network Forensics
  - Tools
---
# Network Forensics Packages and Appliances

[E-Detective](https://www.edecision4u.com/)

<!-- -->

[Burst](http://www.burstmedia.com/release/advertisers/geo_faq.htm)

Expensive [IP geolocation](ip_geolocation.md) service.

<!-- -->

[CapAnalysis](http://www.capanalysis.net)

DEMO: <http://pcap.capanalysis.net>

**Open Source** web visual tool for information security specialists,
system administrators and everyone who needs to analyze large amounts of
captured network traffic.

CapAnalysis performs indexing of data set of PCAP files and presents
their contents in many forms, starting from a list of TCP, UDP or ESP
streams/flows, passing to the geo-graphical representation of the
connections.

<!-- -->

[chkrootkit](chkrootkit.md)
<http://www.chkrootkit.org>

<!-- -->

[cryptcat](cryptcat.md)
<http://farm9.org/Cryptcat/>

<!-- -->

[Enterasys Dragon](enterasys_dragon.md)
<http://www.enterasys.com/products/advanced-security-apps/index.aspx>

Instrusion Detection System, includes session reconstruction.

<!-- -->

[ipfix](ipfix.md)/[netflow v5/9](netflow_v5/9.md)
<http://www.mantaro.com/products/MNIS/collector.htm>

MNIS Collector is an IPFIX collector which also supports legacy Netflow.
It was designed to be used with the MNIS Exporter, which is a Deep
Packet Inspection probe that can be used to decode 300+ protocols on up
to 20 Gbps and report the information in IPFIX.

<!-- -->

[Mantaro Network Intelligence Solutions (mnis)](mantaro_network_intelligence_solutions_(mnis).md)
<http://www.mantaro.com/products/MNIS/index.htm>

MNIS is a comprehensive and scalable network intelligence platform for
network forensics and various other applications. It is built on high
speed Deep Packet Inspection and metadata alerting. It can be used to
understand network events before and after an event. It scales from LAN
environments to 20 Gbps service provider networks.

<http://www.mantaro.com/products/MNIS/network_intelligence_applications.htm#network_forensics>

<!-- -->

[MaxMind](maxmind.md)
<http://www.maxmind.com>

[IP geolocation](ip_geolocation.md) services and data provider
for offline geotagging. Free GeoLite country database. Programmable
APIs.

<!-- -->

[netcat](netcat.md)
<http://netcat.sourceforge.net/>

<!-- -->

[netflow](netflow.md)/[flowtools](flowtools.md)
<http://www.cisco.com/warp/public/732/Tech/nmp/netflow/index.shtml>

<http://www.splintered.net/sw/flow-tools/>

<http://silktools.sourceforge.net/>

<http://www.vmware.com/vmtn/appliances/directory/293> Netflow Appliance
(VMWare)

<!-- -->

[NetDetector](netdetector.md)
<http://www.niksun.com/product.php?id=4>

NetDetector is a full-featured appliance for network security
surveillance, signature-based anomaly detection, analytics and
forensics. It complements existing network security tools, such as
firewalls, intrusion detection/prevention systems and switches/routers,
to help provide comprehensive defense of hosted intellectual property,
mission-critical network services and infrastructure

<!-- -->

[NetIntercept](netintercept.md)
<http://www.sandstorm.net/products/netintercept>

NetIntercept captures whole packets and reassembles up to 999,999 TCP
connections at once, reconstructing files that were sent over your
network and creating a database of its findings. It recognizes over 100
types of network protocols and file types, including web traffic,
multimedia, email, and IM.

<!-- -->

[Netstat](netstat.md)

<!-- -->

[NetVCR](netvcr.md)
<http://www.niksun.com/product.php?id=3>

NetVCR delivers comprehensive real-time network, service and application
performance management. It is an integrated, single-point solution that
decisively replaces multiple network performance monitoring and
troubleshooting systems. NetVCR’s scalable architecture easily adapts to
data centers, core networks, remote branches or central offices for LAN
and WAN requirements

<!-- -->

[NIKSUN Full Function Appliance](niksun_full_function_appliance.md)
<http://www.niksun.com/product.php?id=11>

NIKSUN’s Full-Function Appliance combines the value of both NetDetector
and NetVCR for complete network performance and security surveillance.
This plug-and-play appliance offers customers a complete range of
network security and performance monitoring solutions that identify,
capture and analyze the root-cause of any security or network incident
the first time! The unique enterprise-wide network visibility provided
by this product is extremely attractive to large enterprises requiring
an integrated and proactive solution to combat the constant barrage of
security and network incidents such as worms, viruses, Trojan-horse
attacks, Denial of Service (DoS) attacks, outages, overload and service
slowdown, etc.

<!-- -->

[NetOmni](netomni.md)
<http://www.niksun.com/product.php?id=1>

NetOmni provides global visibility across the network so IT
professionals can manage multiple products and vendors from one central
location. NetOmni streamlines the network management process in a manner
conducive to a “best-practices” model that ensures Service Level
Agreements (SLA), Quality of Services (QoS) and maximum revenue
opportunities.

<!-- -->

[NISUN Puma Portable](nisun_puma_portable.md)
<http://www.niksun.com/product.php?id=15>

NIKSUN's Puma, a portable network monitoring appliance, allows customers
to leverage the state-of-the-art network performance, security and
compliance monitoring technology as a robust luggable appliance that can
be conveniently used in the field. Deployed in a few short steps, Puma
offers with exceptional functionality of NIKSUN's renowned performance
and security monitoring technology within minutes to field personnel.
Puma, is now capable of monitoring networks at 10G speeds. The
incorporation of real-time 10G monitoring to the Puma feature-set
enhances the already excellent value that Puma provides to customers,
making it the go-to portable monitoring and forensics tool for network
professionals

<!-- -->

[ipfix](ipfix.md)/[netflow v5/9](netflow_v5/9.md)
<http://www.mantaro.com/products/MNIS/collector.htm>

MNIS Collector is an IPFIX collector which also supports legacy Netflow.
It was designed to be used with the MNIS Exporter, which is a Deep
Packet Inspection probe that can be used to decode 300+ protocols on up
to 20 Gbps and report the information in IPFIX.

[NetSleuth](netsleuth.md)


<http://www.netgrab.co.uk/>

NetSleuth is a free network analysis tool released under the GPL.
NetSleuth can be used to analyse and fingerprint hosts from pcap files,
designed for post event incident response and network forensics. It also
supports a live sniffing mode, silently identifying and fingerprinting
devices without needing to send any traffic onto a network.

[NetworkMiner](networkminer.md)
<https://sourceforge.net/projects/networkminer/>

<http://www.netresec.com/?page=NetworkMiner>

NetworkMiner is a Network Forensic Analysis Tool (NFAT) for Windows.
NetworkMiner can be used as a passive network sniffer/packet capturing
tool in order to detect operating systems, sessions, hostnames, open
ports etc. without putting any traffic on the network. NetworkMiner can
also parse PCAP files for off-line analysis and to regenerate/reassemble
transmitted files and certificates from PCAP files. The purpose of
NetworkMiner is to collect data (such as forensic evidence) about hosts
on the network rather than to collect data regarding the traffic on the
network. The main view is host centric (information grouped per host)
rather than packet centric (information showed as a list of
packets/frames). NetworkMiner has, since the first release in 2007,
become popular tool among incident responce teams as well as law
enforcement. NetworkMiner is today used by companies and organizations
all over the world.

NetworkMiner is available both as a [free open source
tool](https://sourceforge.net/projects/networkminer/) and as a
[commercial network forensics
tool](http://www.netresec.com/?page=NetworkMiner).

<!-- -->

[pcap2wav](pcap2wav.md)
<http://pcap2wav.xplico.org/>

VoIP/RTP decoder. pcap2wav is part (a sub-project) of
[Xplico](xplico.md) and it supports and decodes the following
audio codecs: G711ulaw, G711alaw, G722, G729, G723, G726 and MSRTA
(x-msrta: Real Time Audio).

<!-- -->

[rkhunter](rkhunter.md)
<http://rkhunter.sourceforge.net/>

<!-- -->

[ngrep](ngrep.md)
<http://ngrep.sourceforge.net/>

<!-- -->

[nslookup](nslookup.md)
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nslookup>

Name Server Lookup command line tool used to find IP address from domain
name.

<!-- -->

[Sguil](sguil.md)
<http://sguil.sourceforge.net/>

<!-- -->

[Snort](snort.md)
<http://www.snort.org/>

<!-- -->

[ssldump](ssldump.md)
<http://ssldump.sourceforge.net/>

<!-- -->

[tcpdump](tcpdump.md)
<http://www.tcpdump.org>

<!-- -->

[tcpxtract](tcpxtract.md)
<http://tcpxtract.sourceforge.net/>

<!-- -->

[tcpflow](tcpflow.md)
<http://www.circlemud.org/~jelson/software/tcpflow/>

<!-- -->

[truewitness](truewitness.md)
<http://www.nature-soft.com/forensic.html>

Linux/open-source. Based in India.

<!-- -->

[OmniPeek](omnipeek.md) by [WildPackets](wildpackets.md)
<http://www.wildpackets.com/solutions/network_forensics>

<http://www.wildpackets.com/products/network_analysis/omnipeek_network_analyzer/forensics_search>

OmniPeek is a network forensics tool used to capture, store, and analyze
historical network traffic.

<!-- -->

[Whois](whois.md)
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WHOIS> Web service and command line tool
to look up registry information for internet domain.

<http://www.arin.net/registration/agreements/bulkwhois.pdf> Bulk WHOIS
data request from ARIN

<!-- -->

[IP Regional Registries](ip_regional_registries.md)
<http://www.arin.net/community/rirs.html>

<http://www.arin.net/index.shtml> American Registry for Internet Numbers
(ARIN)

<http://www.afrinic.net/> African Network Information Center (AfriNIC)

<http://www.apnic.net/> Asia Pacific Network Information Centre (APNIC)

<http://www.lacnic.net/en/> Latin American and Caribbean IP Address
Regional Registry (LACNIC)

<http://www.ripe.net/> RIPE Network Coordination Centre (RIPE NCC)

<!-- -->

[Wireshark](wireshark.md) / Ethereal
<http://www.wireshark.org/>

Open Source protocol analyzer previously known as ethereal.

<!-- -->

[Kismet](kismet.md)
<http://www.kismetwireless.net/>

Kismet is an 802.11 layer2 wireless network detector, sniffer, and
intrusion detection system.

<!-- -->

[kisMAC](kismac.md)
<http://www.http://kismac-ng.org/>

KisMAC is an open-source and free sniffer/scanner application for Mac OS
X.

<!-- -->

[Xplico](xplico.md)
<http://www.xplico.org/>

Open Source Network Forensic Analysis Tool (NFAT). Protocols supported:
[HTTP, SIP, FTP, IMAP, POP, SMTP, TCP, UDP, IPv4, IPv6,
...](http://www.xplico.org/status)

VoIP sniffer and decoder. Audio codec supported: G711ulaw, G711alaw,
G722, G729, G723, G726 and MSRTA

<!-- -->

[Expert Team - 3i System](http://expert-team.net/home/)

Expert Team 3i System provides real-time data traffic reconstruction
which allows raw data packet stream to be decoded, reassemble and
reconstruct back to the original content view receive/compose/sent by
the target users. Supported layer 7 protocols and applications include
HTTP (Web URL and Content, Web Video, Web File Upload and Download,
Email - POP3, IMAP, SMTP, Webmail, Social Networking Sites, FTP File
Upload and Download, Instant Messaging, VoIP etc....

<!-- -->

[fmadio 10G Packet Capture](fmadio_10g_packet_capture.md)
<http://fmad.io>

Cost effective full line rate 10G packet capture to disk appliance.
Featuring a slim 1U solution with 4 hot swap drives and 16TB of raw disk
space, generating nanosecond PCAP files that can be downloaded for
further processing at 10Gbit speed. This is a commercial appliance by a
small independent vendor.

# Command-line tools

[arp](arp.md) - view the contents of your ARP cache

[ifconfig](ifconfig.md) - view your mac and IP address

[ping](ping.md) - send packets to probe remote machines

[SplitCap](splitcap.md) <http://splitcap.sourceforge.net/> -
SplitCap is a free open source pcap file splitter.

[tcpdump](tcpdump.md) - capture packets

[snoop](snoop.md) - captures packets from the network and
displays their contents ([solaris](solaris.md)

[nemesis](nemesis.md) - create arbitrary packets

[tcpreplay](tcpreplay.md) - replay captured packets

[traceroute](traceroute.md) - view a network path

[gnetcast](gnetcast.md) - GNU rewrite of netcat

[packit](packit.md) - packet generator

[nmap](nmap.md) - utility for network exploration and security
auditing

[Xplico](xplico.md) Open Source Network Forensic Analysis Tool
(NFAT)

[pcap_latency_analyzer](pcap_latency_analyzer.md)
<https://github.com/fmadio/pcap_latency_analyzer> - Analyze packet
latency between 2 PCAP\`s or between 2 MAC\`s or any packets with the
same payloads.

## ARP and Ethernet MAC Tools

[arping](arping.md) - transmit ARP traffic

[arpdig](arpdig.md) - probe LAN for MAC addresses

[arpwatch](arpwatch.md) - watch ARP changes

[arp-sk](arp-sk.md) - perform denial of service attacks

[macof](macof.md) - CAM table attacks

[ettercap](ettercap.md) - performs various low-level Ethernet
network attacks

## CISCO Discovery Protocol Tools

[cdpd](cdpd.md) - transmit and receive CDP announcements;
provides forgery capabilities

## ICMP Layer Tests and Attacks

[icmp-reset](icmp-reset.md)

[icmp-quench](icmp-quench.md)

[icmp-mtu](icmp-mtu.md)

[ish](ish.md)

[isnprober](isnprober.md)

## IP Layer Tests

[iperf](iperf.md) - IP multicast test

[fragtest](fragtest.md) - IP fragment reassembly test

## UDP Layer Tests

[udpcast](udpcast.md) - includes UDP-receiver and UDP-sender

## TCP Layer

[lft](lft.md) <http://pwhois.org/lft> - TCP tracing

[etrace](etrace.md) <http://www.bindshell.net/tools/etrace>

[firewalk](firewalk.md) <http://www.packetfactory.net>
