---
tags:
  -  Research
  -  Articles that need to be expanded
---
CALL FOR PAPERS

Usability, Psychology, and Security 2008 April 14, 2008 San Francisco,
CA, USA

Sponsored by USENIX, The Advanced Computing Systems Association

Co-located with the 5th USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design &
Implementation (NSDI '08), which will take place April 16-18, 2008, and
the First USENIX Workshop on Large-Scale Exploits and Emergent Threats
(LEET '08), which will take place April 15, 2008

IMPORTANT DATES Submissions due: January 18, 2008 Notification of
acceptance: February 28, 2008 Final papers due: March 18, 2008

WORKSHOP ORGANIZERS

Program Chairs Elizabeth Churchill, Yahoo! Research Rachna Dhamija,
Harvard University

Program Committee Steven M. Bellovin, Columbia University Dan Boneh,
Stanford University Coye Cheshire, University of California, Berkeley
Julie Downs, Carnegie Mellon University Stuart Schechter, Microsoft
Research Sean Smith, Dartmouth University J.D. Tygar, University of
California, Berkeley Paul Van Oorschot, Carleton University

OVERVIEW Information security involves both technology and people. To
design and deploy secure systems, we require an understanding of how
users of those systems perceive, understand, and act on security risks
and threats.

This one-day workshop will bring together an interdisciplinary group of
researchers, systems designers, and developers to discuss how the fields
of human computer interaction, applied psychology, and computer security
can be brought together to inform innovations in secure systems design.
We seek to deepen the conversation about usable security to go beyond
the user interface, toward developing useful and usable systems of
humans and technology.

TOPICS Topics include but are not limited to:

\- Error detection and recovery - Human perception and cognitive
information processing - Identity and impression management - Individual
and cultural differences - Information seeking and evaluation - Judgment
and decision-making - Learning, training, and experience - Mental
models - Models of privacy, sharing, and trust - Organizational, group,
and individual behavior - Risk perception, risk analysis, and risk
communication - Security behavior study methodology - Social
engineering - Social influence and persuasion - System proposals and
design approaches - Threat evaluation - Usability - User motivation and
incentives for secure behavior

The study of human attention, learning, reasoning, and behavior
addresses issues of central relevance to computer security. For example:

\- Security weaknesses often arise from biases in human perception and
cognitive information processing. For example, phishing attacks use
confusing perceptual cues and fear to trick users into revealing
sensitive information.

\- Assessing, creating, and managing secure systems requires ongoing
information seeking and information evaluation, as new threats emerge
constantly. However, understanding complex and dynamic systems is
time-consuming and error-prone, and users have little motivation to
spend the time and effort that is required.

\- The perception of risk can influence users' willingness to employ
security mechanisms or engage in risky behavior. However, risk
perception and decision-making are often based on limited domain
knowledge and are subject to bias; we underestimate some risks and
exaggerate others.

\- People's level of confidence in their risk assessments can be
perceptually and socially manipulated, independent of actual risks.
Attackers (and system designers) often create the perception of
security, even when none exists.

\- Human reasoning follows certain patterns, which are subject to change
with experience. Through training and education, we can help users to
learn methods and procedures and develop mental models of how security
systems work.

\- People learn through interaction with others. Models of social
influence suggest that information garnered from a trusted source can
affect people's behavior or attitudes, but the level of trust conferred
on others is dependent on situational factors. Organizational factors
and group behavior can also have a large effect on individual behavior.

\- Approaches to risk assessment, identity and impression management,
and trust vary from one individual to another and also vary by culture.

SUBMISSIONS Usability, Psychology, and Security 2008 invites insightful
new contributions that apply aspects of human/computer interaction and
applied psychology to solving problems in computer security. We invite
submissions in two categories.

1\. Short papers: We encourage short papers that describe innovative
work in progress or position papers that map out directions for future
research or design. Short papers should be no longer than five (5)
pages.

2\. Full papers: Full papers may describe systems, case studies,
fieldwork descriptions, experimental studies, and design frameworks.
Full papers must be no longer than ten (10) single-spaced 8.5" x 11"
pages, including figures, tables, and references.

All submissions should offer new contributions that have not been
published elsewhere. Author names and affiliations should appear on the
title page. Submissions must be in PDF and must be submitted via the
form on the Usability, Psychology, and Security 2008 Call for Papers website:

<http://www.usenix.org/upsec08/cfp>

Papers accompanied by nondisclosure agreement forms will not be
considered. All submissions will be treated as confidential prior to
publication in the Proceedings.

Simultaneous submission of the same work to multiple venues, submission
of previously published work, and plagiarism constitute dishonesty or
fraud. USENIX, like other scientific and technical conferences and
journals, prohibits these practices and may, on the recommendation of a
program chair, take action against authors who have committed them. In
some cases, program committees may share information about submitted
papers with other conference chairs and journal editors to ensure the
integrity of papers under consideration. If a violation of these
principles is found, sanctions may include, but are not limited to,
barring the authors from submitting to or participating in USENIX
conferences for a set period, contacting the authors' institutions, and
publicizing the details of the case.

Note, however, that we expect that many papers accepted for the workshop
will eventually be extended as full papers suitable for presentation at
future conferences.

Authors uncertain whether their submission meets USENIX's guidelines
should contact the Program Chairs, upsec08chairs@usenix.org, or the
USENIX office, submissionspolicy@usenix.org.

HISTORY This workshop evolved from Usable Security (USEC'07). The
USEC'07 program and papers are available on the workshop website:

<http://www.usablesecurity.org/>
