---
tags:
  -  Hardware
  -  Gaming
---
## History

Xbox is a sixth generation era video game console produced by Microsoft,
first released on November 15, 2001 in North America, then released on
February 22, 2002 in Japan, and on March 14, 2002 in Europe. The Xbox
was Microsoft's first independent venture into the video game console
arena, after having developed the operating system and development tools
for the MSX, and having collaborated with Sega in porting Windows CE to
the Sega Dreamcast console.

## What can a mod do?

Mods can vary depending on the system you have. A mdo is basically the
machine modified or hacked, allowing the user to do more than they could
have prior. Basically, the Xbox can do the most with a mod because of
its internal hard drive. By modding the hard drive, it can run games
without the original disc, install old system ROM's for playing games
from previous generations of gaming systems, and using the Xbox as a
file server for various file formats (movies, pictures, audio, etc...)
Typically, people boot the Xbox with a Linux kernel, which even allows
the user to surf the web. Xbox live can also be ran using a different
service, which of course is free.

## Why is this Forensically important?

With the Xbox able to do all of the above, this leaves criminals endless
capabilities. Who would ever think to look at an Xbox for evidence?
Everything someone would extract from a computer, can now be found on a
gaming system like the Xbox. The mod allows one to transform their Xbox
to a file server, which can include incriminating evidence. Learning how
to extract information from the Xbox is a very important detail that
shouldn't be overlooked.

## External Links

* [Wikipedia: Xbox](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xbox)

## Bibliography

- [XFT: a forensic toolkit for the original Xbox game console](http://www.inderscience.com/search/index.php?action=record&rec_id=24903&prevQuery=&ps=10&m=or),
  by David Collins
